---
source: OutBound Delivery Process.pdf
module: SAP SD
title: OutBound Delivery Process
---

# [Source: OutBound Delivery Process.pdf | Module: SAP SD]

Delivery Management (LE-SHP)
SAP S/4HANA | 2025 FPS01 (Feb 2026)

---

Outbound Delivery Process
The outbound delivery process models sending goods from a supplier to a recipient.
Delivery Management allows you to do the following processes:
Please note that image maps are not interactive in PDF outputs.
Creating and Processing Outbound Deliveries
In its role as central object of the goods issue process, the outbound delivery supports all shipping activities including picking,
packing, transportation, and goods issue.
During the outbound delivery process, shipping-planning information is recorded, status of shipping activities is monitored and
data accumulated during shipping processing is documented. When the outbound delivery is created, the shipping activities, such
as picking or delivery scheduling, are initiated, and data that is generated during shipping processing is included in the delivery.
Range of Functions
An outbound delivery can be created as follows:
With reference to a sales order
With reference to a stock transport order
With reference to a subcontracting purchase order
With reference to a project
Without any reference
 Note
Click on a process below to see more information about it. Each information box has links to more information about the
process.

---

Depending on your requirements, you can create outbound deliveries automatically using worklists, or manually. You can make
agreements with your customers for complete and partial deliveries and for order combinations. Outbound deliveries can be
combined to form a single group of deliveries.
Overviews allow you to monitor created outbound deliveries and remaining sales activities.
Outbound deliveries can only be created under certain conditions.
Related Information
Delivery from Projects
Partial Delivery and Complete Delivery
Order Combination
Grouping Outbound Deliveries
Working with the Delivery Monitor
Prerequisites for Processing Deliveries in Sales Orders
Working with Outbound Deliveries
Delivery Management allows you to manually manage your outbound deliveries using the SAP GUI and the SAP Fiori launchpad.
For more information about all of the Fiori apps that Delivery Management provides, see Apps in Delivery Management.
Creating Outbound Deliveries with Order Reference
Context
Manually create a single outbound delivery for exactly one order, if you know the order number. Only the order items from this
order that are due for shipment will be included in the delivery. You can make changes to the shipping data, if necessary.
Procedure
1. From the SAP Fiori launchpad, open the Create Outbound Delivery – with Order Reference app.
The initial screen for creating outbound deliveries appears.
2. Enter the appropriate shipping point.
3. Specify the selection date.
The current date is proposed by the system as the selection date.
 Note
The following procedures assume that you’re using SAP Fiori applications accessed from the SAP Fiori launchpad. If an SAP
GUI transaction exists, you can see the transaction code and SAP Easy Access menu path by hovering over the app name.
 Note
You can also create a single outbound delivery directly from the sales order by choosing
Sales document   Deliver
on the sales screen.
 Note

---

4. If you only want to deliver some of the order items, specify the appropriate item numbers in the From item and To item
fields.
5. Select Enter.
The outbound delivery is put together according to your specifications. Then, the outbound delivery overview screen
appears. Data is copied into the outbound delivery from the order to which it refers. The system enters the delivery quantity
in the delivery according to availability. On the header screens and item screens, you can enter additional specifications (for
example, how the goods are to be transported). You can also change the specifications from the order.
A note is entered in the error log if inconsistencies occur in a schedule line.
6. Save the delivery by choosing
Delivery   Save.
When the system has saved the document, it informs you of the number of the outbound delivery.
Next Steps
After creating a delivery, you can branch directly to one of the subsequent functions such as creating a transfer order in the
Warehouse Management System, printing or allocating the outbound delivery to a group. To do so, select Subsequent functions
and one of the functions listed.
If errors occur while a delivery is being created, the system notes them in a log. The system issues a message if any errors have
occurred. For example, an entry is made in the log if an item is rejected because of lack of availability.
To find out the cause of the error, you can branch to the log from any of the overview screens in the delivery by choosing
Edit
Error log.
From there, you can make changes directly to the shipping document.
Creating Outbound Deliveries Without Order Reference
You can create outbound deliveries without referring to an order.
Context
When you create a delivery without reference to an order, you must enter the ship-to party and the materials manually. Data is
copied into the document from the appropriate master records. The system does not check whether the data is complete.
Therefore, you can create a delivery without specifying a delivering plant or a storage location, for example.
Procedure
1. From the SAP Fiori launchpad, open the Create Outbound Delivery – without Order Reference app.
The initial screen for creating outbound deliveries appears.
2. Enter the shipping point and choose Delivery w/o ref. for the delivery type. Then enter the sales organization, distribution
channel and division in the Sales area data section of the screen.
3. Press the ENTER key.
The outbound delivery overview screen appears.
4. Enter the ship-to party and all outbound delivery items and their delivery quantities. Enter further header and item data, if
necessary.
5. Save the outbound delivery by choosing
Outbound delivery   Save
You can only deliver schedule lines whose material availability date or transportation scheduling date is the same as or
falls before the selection date.

---

Changing Individual Outbound Deliveries
Use the document number to open and modify an outbound delivery directly.
Procedure
1. From the SAP launchpad, open the Change Outbound Delivery app.
2. Enter the number of the delivery you want to change.
Use the Goto menu to access a specific view of the delivery and make changes.
3. Select Enter.
4. Make your changes in the outbound delivery.
5. Save the changes by choosing
Outbound delivery   Save
Changing Outbound Deliveries from a List
Use the outbound delivery monitor to list and change deliveries based on selection criteria.
Procedure
1. From the SAP launchpad, open the My Outbound Delivery Monitor app.
2. Choose List outbound deliveries.
3. Enter your selection criteria and decide whether to display all deliveries or only the open ones.
4. Choose Execute.
5. Select the delivery to change by choosing the line and then
Subsequent functions   Change outbound deliveries
6. Enter your changes.
7. Save the changes by choosing
Outbound delivery   Save
Deleting Outbound Delivery Items
You can delete individual items from an outbound delivery as needed.
Procedure
1. Open a delivery in change mode.
For more information, see Changing Individual Outbound Deliveries.
2. Select the item or items in the outbound delivery that you want to delete on one of the overview screens.
3. Choose Delete item(s).
4. A dialog box appears in which you must confirm that you want to delete the items.
5. Choose Yes.
6. The items selected are deleted and no longer appear on the overview screen.
 Example
To display all open deliveries, go to the Status: Outb. Delivs screen area and in the Goods Movement Sts. field, enter
any value other than C (Completely Processed).

---

7. Save the outbound delivery by choosing
Outbound delivery   Save
Adding to Outbound Deliveries
You can add order-independent items, entire orders, or individual order items to an outbound delivery before goods issue and
invoicing.
You can use this function in various business scenarios. The following scenarios are examples of when you can use this feature:
The sales department decides late whether to ship a product in disposable or returnable packaging
Multiple small orders from the same customer need to be consolidated into one outbound delivery
A customer requests additional items such as spare parts or promotional materials just before shipment
Packaging materials, pallets, or accessories weren't included in the original sales order but must be added before goods
issue.
Creating Order-Independent Items
Context
This function is useful when you need to include packaging materials without referencing a sales order.
You can only add items that aren't linked to a sales order if the delivery permits the item category for those items. Items that
require a sales order can't be added to an outbound delivery. System configuration controls which materials can be included; in
the standard system, only materials with the item category VERP can be added.
If this item category isn't allowed, contact your system administrator.
Procedure
1. Open a delivery in change mode.
For more information, see Changing Individual Outbound Deliveries.
2. On a blank item line, enter the material number and the delivery quantity.
3. Save the outbound delivery.
Adding Order Items
Context
You add order items to an outbound delivery when existing sales orders need to be fulfilled together in one shipment.
Procedure
 Note
Prerequisites for adding to an outbound delivery are that the goods issue hasn't yet been posted for the outbound delivery and
that the business transaction hasn’t yet been invoiced.

---

1. Open a delivery in change mode.
For more information, see Changing Individual Outbound Deliveries.
2. Choose
Outbound delivery   Deliver order
The Deliver Sales Order dialog box appears.
3. Enter the date, order, and item, then choose Continue.
The order items that are due for delivery are included in the delivery if their shipping criteria match the shipping criteria of
the delivery.
To add a whole order instead of individual items, leave the Item from and Item to fields blank.
4. Save the outbound delivery by choosing
Outbound delivery   Save
Carrying out a Subsequent Delivery Split
Split an existing outbound delivery into multiple smaller deliveries when the planned transport capacity cannot be used.
Context
Just before you begin loading a delivery, for example, you notice that the means of transport is smaller than the one that was
scheduled to take on this delivery. So, you decide to split a planned delivery into several smaller deliveries. Your colleagues who are
working at the loading ramp specify the delivery items (or handling units) that will actually be loaded onto the means of transport.
The shipping documents, goods movement postings and billing documents should be created based on the quantity that was
actually loaded. The rest of the delivery items will be included in another shipment at a later time.
Procedure
Selecting outbound deliveries that are to be split
1. From the SAP launchpad, open the Split Outbound Delivery app.
2. Enter a split profile in the Split Parameters section.
The split profile combines all the settings that you made in the Implementation Guide (IMG) and applies them to the
current split process. You can predefine a split profile with user parameter LEDSP_PMODE.
3. Use the other sections on this screen to further limit the delivery selection.
For example, if you know which outbound delivery you want to select, you can enter its delivery number in the Document
data section.
4. Choose Execute to start the delivery selection.
If there are no outbound deliveries that meet the selection criteria that you specified, a message to that effect will appear.
Carrying out the subsequent outbound-delivery split
5. Define the delivery items or quantities that are to be split in one of the following ways:
Double-click a delivery item to split the entire item quantity from the original delivery.
If you want to split the entire quantity of a delivery item from the original delivery, choose that item by double-
clicking it.
 Note
This procedure is also valid for splitting outbound deliveries by handling unit, although only the handling units that are not
packed in other handling units are displayed.

---

The system assigns this item a number, which appears in the list as a current split result number.
Enter a split result number to split the entire item quantity from the original delivery.
Enter a four-digit number of your choice in the Result field.
You can use the result number to control the combination of outbound deliveries that are involved in the split. If you
assign the same result number to the delivery items in one outbound delivery, these items will remain together and
appear in the same split result after the split. If delivery items have different result numbers, the split distributes
them among several outbound deliveries.
If you selected more than one outbound delivery, please note that result numbers are only ever valid for one
outbound delivery. In other words, the same result numbers can be assigned in splits of different outbound
deliveries. Entire outbound deliveries cannot be combined by assigning the same result number. Combination by
assigning the same result number is only valid for items, as described above.
Enter a quantity to split a partial quantity.
If you only want to split a partial quantity of a delivery item, enter that quantity in the Split quantity field. The
quantity that appears in the Unpacked quantity field is the maximum quantity that you can enter in the Split
quantity field.
Splitting items into different, new deliveries.
If you assign different split result numbers for each delivery item in a delivery, you effectively split up these delivery
items and distribute each one to its own separate, new outbound delivery. You can use the
Split   Highlight
function to highlight the corresponding rows in different colors.
6. Simulate the split.
Choose
Split   Simulate
to get a preview of the effects of the delivery split. The system assigns temporary delivery
numbers for the new outbound deliveries that are to be created. If you are not satisfied with the results of the simulation,
you can undo the simulation for separate items by marking those items and choosing
Split   Reset simulation
7. Choose
Split   Save split
to carry out a split based on the simulation.
A message informing you of the number of outbound deliveries that were saved and changed appears. The new outbound
deliveries (with new delivery numbers) and changed outbound deliveries are still displayed.
Displaying Outbound Deliveries
You can use the display mode to look for specific information in an outbound delivery. You cannot make changes to the outbound
delivery in display mode. You can switch to change mode in the top menu bar by choosing
Outbound Delivery   Display <->
Change
Context
You can use the display mode to look for specific information in an outbound delivery. For example, you may want to check the
materials or quantities in the outbound delivery or to what extent the delivery has been processed. You cannot make changes to
the outbound delivery in display mode.
 Note
You can also combine entries of partial quantities and result numbers. For example, if you enter both a split result
number and a partial quantity in each row, the partial quantities of different delivery items will be split among different
outbound deliveries. If you want to split one item into more than two partial quantities, you must simulate the split more
than once.

---

Procedure
1. In the SAP launchpad, open Display Outbound Delivery.
2. Enter the number of the outbound delivery that you want to display.
3. Optional: On this screen, you can use the menu options under Goto to call up a specific view of the outbound delivery.
4. Choose Enter.
Results
The overview screen that you chose appears.
There are various functions that you can use on this screen to obtain further details. For example, if you select an item and choose
Goto   Item
, you can select a details screen, where you can view more information about the item.
Deleting Outbound Deliveries
You can delete entire outbound deliveries if they're no longer needed.
Procedure
1. Open a delivery in change mode.
For more information, see Changing Individual Outbound Deliveries.
2. Enter the number of the outbound delivery that you want to delete.
3. Press ENTER .
4. The outbound delivery screen appears.
5. Choose
Outbound delivery   Delete
6. The Delete Delivery Processing dialog box appears. The system asks you to confirm that you really want to delete the
delivery.
7. Choose Yes and press ENTER.
Results
You receive a message informing you that the delivery has been deleted.
Delivering Documents Due for Delivery
Prerequisites
You can tailor the user roles and the delivery scenarios in the standard system to your needs in order to better adapt processing of
documents due for delivery to your business processes. In order to make these adjustments, carry out the following steps in
Customizing under
Logistics Execution   Shipping   Worklists
Configure list profiles
Assign list profiles to delivery scenarios
Context

---

You can deliver several documents at the same time as a background process.
Procedure
1. From the SAP Fiori launchpad, open one of the following apps:
My Documents – Due for Delivery
My Items - Due for Delivery
My Schedule Lines – Due for Delivery
My Sales Order Due for Delivery – Edit User-Specific Criteria
My Sales Orders – Due for Delivery
My Sales Order Items - Due for Delivery
My Sales Order Schedule Lines – Due for Delivery
Alternatively, from the SAP Easy Access menu, choose
Logistics   Logistics Execution   Outbound Process   Goods
Issue for Outbound Delivery   Outbound Delivery   Create   Collective Processing of Documents Due for Delivery
and
select a delivery scenario of your choice.
The Selection Criteria entry screen appears. For more information, see Selection Criteria.
2. Specify the Shipping point for which you want to create the delivery.
3. Set a range for the Delivery creation date.
The default value for this field can be specified in the user role.
The delivery creation date results from scheduling and defines when a document must be created to ensure the delivery
stays on schedule.
4. Fill in the selection criteria that will be most helpful for you.
Depending on which user role the delivery scenario is carried out with, different selection criteria may be active.
You can define which criteria appear in the user role and can be overridden on the User role tab.
5. Make sure there is an entry for displaying the delivery list in the user role specifications in the function code profile.
6. To start the search, choose
Program   Execute
The delivery list appears, or the system issues a message that no documents due for delivery meet the criteria.
7. Select the lines you want to deliver and choose Create delivery in background.
 Note
The following selection criteria are important for performance, in this order:
Shipping point
Delivery creation date
Delivery priority
Route
Forwarding agent
Goods issue date
Ship-to party
Document number

---

After creation, the Log for delivery creation function appears in the status bar, where you can check results and messages.
Grouping Outbound Deliveries
You can combine outbound deliveries into groups and manage them using the relevant apps in the Fiori launchpad.
Context
You can combine outbound deliveries into groups. An outbound delivery can belong to several groups. You can create grouped
outbound deliveries manually. When you process a delivery due list, the system combines all the outbound deliveries that it creates
into one group.
All grouped deliveries are identified by a group number. You can use this number to access the group and to find the individual
outbound deliveries that belong to that group.
Procedure
1. From the Fiori launchpad, open the Create Delivery Group app.
2. Enter the group type.
3. Choose Enter.
The Create Group screen appears.
4. Enter the document numbers of the deliveries that you want to group together and maintain the header data.
The Create Group: Documents by Group screen appears.
5. Save your group.
Next Steps
To change a group, open the Change Delivery Group app from the Fiori launchpad.
To display a group, open the Display Delivery Group app from the Fiori launchpad.
Picking
The picking process involves taking goods from a storage location and staging the right quantity in a picking area where the goods
will be prepared for shipping.
Range of Functions
Regardless of how your company executes the picking process, you can make settings in the system so that picking is carried out
Automatically when creating outbound deliveries
Routinely at certain times
Manually according to overviews of the day's workload that an employee has requested
A picking status is recorded in each delivery item for the purpose of scheduling and monitoring the picking process. This status
indicates where the item is in the picking procedure (picking has started for item A, for instance).

---

In the system standard settings, it’s a prerequisite for goods issue to be posted before the item relevant for picking can be picked
completely. Therefore, delivery quantity and picking quantity (picked quantity) in the outbound delivery must be equal.
The Warehouse Management System (WMS) module is fully integrated in Logistics Execution (LE). For example, you can create a
WM transfer order directly from the outbound delivery. The current status of the warehouse management process can also be
monitored from the delivery, for instance.
You can transfer all data relevant for picking and verification of picking data to a subsystem by using the Delivery Interface .
By using message control, data can be transferred to a subsystem that is being used for picking.
Depending on the picking procedure being used, you can either determine delivery-relevant data before picking or wait until after
picking is completed to record it. Delivery-relevant data may be made up of the following:
Which batches a material is picked from
Which serial numbers are picked
Which valuation types the stock is taken from
Related Information
Outbound Delivery Creation
Picking Status
Delivery Interface
Picking Items
You can indicate picked materials in the outbound delivery by entering a picked quantity. In some implementations, the picked
quantity is automatically updated during warehouse processing. However, you can enter the value manually. Entering a picked
quantity for all items is a prerequisite for some follow up activities on the outbound delivery.
Context
You enter a picked quantity in the outbound delivery overview, in the Picking tab.
Procedure
1. From the Fiori launchpad, open the Change Outbound Delivery app.
2. Enter the delivery number and choose Continue.
The delivery opens in change mode.
3. On the Picking tab, in the All Items table, find the Picked Quantity column.
4. Enter the picked quantity.
5. Save the delivery.
 Restriction
You can't enter a picked quantity in the item details.

---

Picking Status
You can determine to what extent picking has been carried out for a delivery from the picking status. The picking status is stored in
each item in the delivery.
In the standard version of the SAP system, the following indicators are defined for the picking status:
Standard Picking Status Indicators
Indicator
Importance
"Blank"
The item is not relevant for picking
A
Picking has not been started
B
The item has been partially picked
C
The item has been completely picked
Picking Status in the Delivery Item
You will find the picking status on the first item details screen All data . To call up this screen, select the item whose status you
want to display on a delivery overview screen. Then choose
Item   Item details
. You will find the status indicator in the Picking
Status field.
You can also find the picking status on the status screen of a delivery item. To call up this screen, select the item whose status you
want to check on a delivery overview screen. Then choose
Item   Status
. You will find the status indicator in the Picking
Status field.
If picking is carried out for a delivery item in the Warehouse Management System WM, the processing status of the item in the WM
System is also shown on both screens.
Picking Status in the Overview
The picking status of each delivery item is shown on the picking overview screen. To call up this overview screen, choose
Overview   Picking
on a delivery screen. The picking status of the delivery items is displayed in the P W column on the far right
of the screen.
Picking Status and Goods Issue
You can only post goods issue for a delivery once all items relevant for picking have been completely picked.
Therefore, the delivery cannot leave the shipping point if the picked quantity confirmed by the warehouse is smaller than the
delivery quantity. Before you can post goods issue, you must decide whether to reduce the delivery quantity or whether to carry
out picking again to determine if the entire quantity can be delivered. In the second case, you cannot create any partial deliveries.
Picking Status and Decentralized Warehouse Management
 Note
A delivery item is regarded as partially picked if the picked quantity is smaller than the delivery quantity.

---

If you are implementing Decentralized Warehouse Management , the individual delivery items in the central system are not
relevant for picking. The delivery, as described in Posting Goods Issue , is reported to the central system. Picking takes place in the
decentralized system and is reported back (confirmed) to the central system as soon as picking is complete. The goods issue is
then posted in the central system.
Packing
As an example, you could pack delivery items in boxes, pack the boxes on pallets for delivery to the customer, and load the pallets
onto a truck. For more information about handling units, seeHandling Unit.
Related Information
Packing
Goods Issue
As soon as the goods leave the company, the shipping business activity is finished. This is illustrated using goods issue for
outbound deliveries.
You have the following options for posting goods issue:
Goods issue posting for individual outbound deliveries
Collective processing to post goods issue for multiple outbound deliveries
Collective processing for posting goods issue for multiple outbound deliveries in the background without manual
intervention
Posting goods issue for an entire shipment
Range of Functions
The outbound delivery forms the basis of goods issue posting. The data required for goods issue posting is copied from the
outbound delivery into the goods issue document, which cannot be changed manually. Any changes must be made in the
outbound delivery itself. In this way, you can be sure that the goods issue document is an accurate reflection of the outbound
delivery.
When you post goods issue for an outbound delivery, the following functions are carried out on the basis of the goods issue
document:
Warehouse stock of the material is reduced by the delivery quantity
 Caution
If the item category is relevant for picking, the item is set to "not relevant for picking" during the process of transmission to the
decentralized system. The reason for this is because picking takes place in the decentralized system.
 Note
This is a function shared by more than one delivery type and it's processes. For more information about this function, see the
related links.

---

Value changes are posted to the balance sheet account in inventory accounting
Requirements are reduced by the delivery quantity
The serial number status is updated
Goods issue posting is automatically recorded in the document flow
Stock determination is executed for the vendor's consignment stock
A worklist for the proof of delivery is generated
After goods issue is posted for an outbound delivery, the scope for changing the delivery document becomes very limited. This
prevents there being any discrepancies between the goods issue document and the outbound delivery.
Posting Goods Issue Using a Decentralized Warehouse Management System
Goods Issue Using the Decentralized Warehouse Management System
If you implement the Decentralized Warehouse Management System, you cannot post goods issue using one integrated step.
Goods issue in the decentralized WMS is controlled by using the following process flow:
1. The delivery is reported to the decentralized system.
2. Picking takes place in the decentralized system.
3. Goods issue is also posted in the decentralized system. This main objective of this process is to keep goods issue areas well
organized.

---

4. Then, the decentralized system reports the delivery to the central system (S/4HANA system).
5. Finally, stock is reduced in the central system.
Related Information
Posting Goods Issue for Individual Deliveries
Goods Issue in Collective Processing
Posting Goods Issue for Shipments
Posting Goods Issue for Individual Deliveries
You can post goods issue for individual documents.
Prerequisites
The data in the delivery must be complete. For example, you've entered the storage location, batch, or valuation type, if
necessary.
Picking of all individual outbound delivery items must be complete for all items marked as Relevant for picking. This
indicator is set in the Customizing under:
Logistics Execution   Shipping   Picking   Define relevant item categories
Integration Scenarios
If your system is integrated with the Warehouse Management System (WMS) or Lean WM, all transfer orders that require
confirmation must be confirmed for outbound delivery items that were picked away using these systems and you've marked the
items at the storage type as subject to confirmation. You can make these settings in the following Customizing activities:
Scenario
Warehouse Management System
Logistics Execution   Warehouse Management   Master Data
Define storage type
Lean WM
Logistics Execution   Shipping   Picking   Lean WM   Define
storage type
Context
You can post goods issue from most outbound delivery views.
Procedure
1. Open the delivery in change mode.
 Note
There is no credit check that takes place in the GI posting process.
 Restriction
If you use SAP Warehouse Management or Lean Warehouse Management, you must post goods issue in those systems not the
central system. The Post Goods Issue button is inactive in S/4HANA when a delivery has been distributed.

---

2. Choose Post Goods Issue.
Results
When you save the delivery, goods issue is posted, and you receive a message that contains the delivery number. The goods issue
document number isn't shown but you can find it in the document flow.
Goods Issue in Collective Processing
Use
You can use the collective processing function to post goods issue for multiple outbound deliveries at the same time.
First, select all the outbound deliveries ready for goods issue posting. You can limit the selection by goods issue date, for example.
You can choose the inbound deliveries for which you want to post goods issue from the list that appears.
Prerequisites
Only deliveries that have been fully picked and fulfill the Prerequisites for Goods Issue Posting are included in the goods issue
overview.
Procedure
To select outbound deliveries for which goods issue is to be posted, proceed as follows:
1. From shipping , choose
Post Goods Issue   Collective Processing Via Outb. Delivery Monitor.
2. The Outbound Deliveries for Goods Issue screen appears.
3. Enter your selection criteria. You can also specify intervals for certain data.
4. Choose Execute .
The Outbound Deliveries for Goods Issue appears containing the deliveries to be posted for goods issue for each goods issue
date, along with other relevant information.
To post goods issue for the outbound deliveries included in the overview, proceed as follows:
1. Select the deliveries for which you want to post goods issue on the screen Outbound Deliveries for Goods Issue .
2. Choose
Subsequent functions   Post goods issue   .
3. Goods issue is posted for the deliveries selected and you receive the message: <n> goods issue posted <n> goods issue
not posted . You can tell from this message whether goods issue could not be posted for some of the deliveries.
In addition, there is a separate overview for each delivery that indicates whether goods issue has been posted successfully
or not.
 Note
Before posting goods issue, you can specify the actual goods receipt date without having to change the planned date.
Enter the actual goods receipt date on an overview screen in the delivery. If you haven't made an explicit entry for the
goods issue date, the system uses the current date.

---

4. Select
Goto   Back    to return to the goods issue overview.
Goods Issue from Consignment Stock
Use
In addition to the standard stock determination function, you have the option of using consignment stocks for delivery.
Prerequisites
The prerequisite for this function is that the following parameters be defined in Customizing:
Stock determination rule
Stock determination group
You can maintain the stock determination rule in the Define item categories for deliveries Customizing activity.
In the material master, the respective material must be assigned to a stock determination group.
Range of Functions
Stock determination takes place during posting of goods issue.
You can also define the stock withdrawal sequence by making the appropriate settings in Customizing. For example, you can first
use your own stock, and then fall back on vendor consignment stock.
Displaying Goods Issue Documents
Use
The goods issue document is not a sales & distribution document. It belongs to Materials Management (MM) and to Financial
Accounting (FI). You can, however, display the goods issue document during sales processing. This gives you an up-to-date idea of
stock quantities and values.
Procedure
If you want to access a goods issue document for a delivery from sales processing, proceed as follows:
1. Select
Environment   Document flow
on an overview screen of the relevant delivery.
The system displays all the document numbers that have been created for this business transaction. Among other things, it
displays the number of the delivery's goods issue document. In addition, the system displays the processing status of the business
transaction.
 Note
If you are using the Warehouse Management System (WMS) or picking using WMS, stock determination takes place already
when you create the transfer order and not later at the time when the goods issue is posted.

---

1. Place the cursor on the number of the goods issue document and select
Environment   Display document
The Materials Management document appears. The plant, storage location and batch data as well as the material movement type
for the delivery item are shown on this overview screen.
1. To display the accounting document, select
Environment   Accounting docs
The financial accounting document appears. The data on the overview screen includes the value that is posted and the posting key
with which the posting to the relevant balance sheet accounts is executed.
1. Choose
Goto   Back
until you reach the display of the document flow for the delivery.
Proof of Delivery
Implementation Options
Proof of delivery (POD) is an instrument involved in business processes in which an invoice is issued only after the customer has
confirmed the delivery's arrival. In addition to the proof of delivery itself, you can also record the POD date, POD time, the actual
quantity that arrived and the reason for possible differences in quantities. This is especially important for deliveries in which the
delivery quantity varies because of the nature of the goods or for which the exact delivery quantity is unknown from the start.
You are now in a position to issue an accurate invoice based on the customer's confirmation of goods received. It is no longer
necessary to create credit memos after the fact. The reasons for deviation that occur most often in "real world" scenarios such as
stock shrinkage, theft, certain characteristics of goods (volatility, for example) and transportation damage are recorded and
analyzed in the system. This analysis is especially valuable when you are negotiating with forwarding agents, vendors or
customers, since all deviations can be reflected.
Prerequisites
Proof of delivery is exclusively an instrument for confirmation of external customers' deliveries.
Proof of delivery uses IDoc DELVRY03, although if deviations occur, the delivery proof segment (E1EDL53) in delivery item
E1EDL24 and the segments in delivery header E1EDL20 must be filled in. In this segment, the ship-to party enters the deviation
reason, the deviation quantity and the delivery unit or stockkeeping unit and the corresponding unit of measure. You can carry out
a proof of delivery more than once for the entire delivery (if differences were entered incorrectly during the first verification, for
example). However, if all items of a delivery were recorded in the first verification with no deviations from the shipping notification,
POD confirmation occurs automatically. In this case, it is not possible for the ship-to party to make multiple verifications. If there
are no deviations, you must fill in segments E1EDL20 and E1EDL24.
For batch split items, proof of delivery occurs only for the sub-items, because the given batch is needed for informational
purposes. The main batch item is confirmed with no deviations.
You should make the following settings in the Implementation Guide under
Logistics Execution    Shipping     Deliveries
Proof of delivery
Define for each delivery item category whether it is relevant for the POD process .
SAP recommends that you flag all item categories that belong to a delivery type as being POD relevant.
If you want to copy the POD relevance from a preceding document (such as an SD scheduling agreement) into inbound deliveries,
select Copy POD relevance from preceding document (V) for the item category. In this case, as the preceding document is being
processed, the system already knows whether verification for an item should occur or is expected.

---

Define reasons for deviation .
Define how the quantity is to be calculated (add or subtract the difference quantity, depending on whether you are dealing with an
overdelivery or an underdelivery).
Set the Relevant for POD indicator on the Shipping tab page of the customer with whom you would like to carry out POD-
processing in the Sales area data of that customer's file.
You can also enter a time frame in which you expect to receive verification from the ship-to party. Once the time frame has passed,
outbound deliveries can be confirmed using the Automatic Confirmation function.
Process Flow
Automatic Verification and Confirmation
The ship-to party transfers the proof of delivery to the SAP System via IDoc from another SAP System, an external system or via
Internet. In this way, the quantities are verified for the delivery. Multiple verification is only possible if the outbound delivery has
not yet been completely confirmed.
The current proof of delivery situation is reflected by the POD status: POD-relevant, Deviations reported or Confirmed . You can
check the POD status at any time within delivery processing by using the status overview. The system does not make an entry in
the document flow.
In most cases, there are no quantity deviations, meaning that the proof of delivery process does not create any additional work for
you. This process enables automatic verification and confirmation via IDoc or Internet.
Manual Verification Processing
Manual processing of the verification is always necessary when deviations are reported by the ship-to party. In such a case, it is
necessary to edit the POD confirmation.
When you process a POD manually, you can enter and analyze reported differences and deviation reasons in the SAP System. In
this way, you can control the checks made and dictate when the POD is ready to be released for further processing. To process
proof of delivery manually, proceed as described under Confirming Proof of Delivery Manually .
Proof of Delivery Statuses
The following statuses are available for PoD:
Not Relevant (BLANK)
Relevant (Not Yet Processed) (A)
Partially Processed (B)
Completely Processed (C)
Manually Confirming Proof of Delivery (PoD)
You can manually confirm proof of delivery if you receive the information from a customer outside of the SAP system. You have the
following options to confirm delivered quantities:
Confirming PoD from a Worklist

---

Confirming PoD for Individual Deliveries
Confirming PoD from a Worklist
You can confirm delivered quantities from a worklist using the Deliveries Worklist - Proof of Delivery app.
Procedure
1. From the Fiori launchpad, open the Deliveries Worklist - Proof of Delivery app.
This app corresponds to transaction VLPODL.
2. Enter a date and time for selection.
Enter the POD confirmation date and time here. The system automatically enters the current date and time as a default.
Result: This data is carried over into the selected list as deliveries not yet processed.
3. Enter the selection criteria.
a. You can select according to criteria such as shipping point, route, actual goods movement date, PoD date or delivery
number.
You can specify a PoD status that you want to have displayed in the Deliveries worklist section.
4. Click Execute
A worklist according to your selection criteria is displayed.
Results
Edit the worklist as required:
Select and sort deliveries
Change POD date and time (POD date)
Display document flow and details for a delivery
Choose, edit, and save display variants for this list
Display individual deliveries (display individual documents)
Create billing document (following completed PoD)
Display differences for a delivery (worklist for subsequent processing)
PoD fast confirmation for one or more deliveries from the list with processing log
Confirming PoD for Individual Deliveries
You can confirm delivered quantities for individual documents using the Change Outbound Delivery - Proof of Delivery app.
Procedure
1. From the Fiori launchpad, open the Change Outbound Delivery - Proof of Delivery app.
This app corresponds to transaction VLPODA.

---

2. Enter the delivery ID.
3. Choose Continue.
4. Enter delivered quantity differences and a reason.
5. On the Overview POD tab, choose Confirm Proof of Delivery to confirm the values.
Next Steps
You can cancel the confirmation by choosing the button next to Confirm Proof of Delivery.
Subsequent Processing of Proof of Delivery (POD)
Use
After the proof of delivery has been confirmed, the system constructs a worklist for manual subsequent processing for deliveries
requiring quantity and value corrections (cost of goods sold, for example). In this list, you can select deliveries according to criteria
such as reason for deviation, POD date and material. You can also use this list for statistical analyses.
Procedure
1. From shipping, choose
Proof of Delivery   Worklist POD subsequent processing
The "Proof of delivery: items with difference quantities" screen appears.
The selection screen for the POD subsequent processing worklist is divided into two sections:
Choose worklist
You can select your worklist according to variance reason, POD date or POD verification date, for example.
You can use the Selection conditions for further processing to define indicators for subsequent processing (quantities or
values).
The system flags an item with differences for subsequent processing (manual value and quantity corrections) by using two
indicators. Both may have the following attributes:
'0': No subsequent processing necessary (items with differences, POD status B)
'1': Subsequent processing necessary (items with differences, POD status C)
'2': Subsequent processing completed (manual quantity or value corrections have been made)
 Note
Within the list, these three attributes are illustrated with the following icons:

---

'0': Inactive icon
'1': Red icon
'2': Green icon
1. After you have entered your selection criteria, choose "Execute".
A list of all items with varying quantities or values appears. You can sort within this list of items according to reasons (for statistical
analyses), as an example.
1. Based on this worklist, you can carry out any necessary corrections manually.
Once you are finished making manual corrections, confirm these steps in the worklist by clicking on the corresponding icon. The
colors of the icons in the list will change. After the icons have changed color, the deliveries in question can be archived.
There are no corrections made automatically based on the POD confirmation.
Processing Returns After Goods Issue Posting
Purpose
Processing returns after successful goods issue posting involves a cancellation of the goods issue posting process. This method
allows you to reverse goods issue by creating a returns delivery and then posting goods receipt for it.
For more information about reversing goods issue, refer to the Goods Issue Reversal section.
Process Flow
After billing the outbound delivery, proceed as follows:
1. Enter a returns order (order type RE) for the customer and the material involved.
You can create this returns order with reference to the original sales order. In this way, the document flow provides the
assignment of the original order to the returns order. The original order quantities for the individual goods are proposed
automatically. You can change the proposed quantities if necessary.
2. Create a returns delivery for the returns order. The system proposes the delivery type. The delivery quantities in the returns
delivery must correspond to the goods issue quantities in the goods issue document that was posted incorrectly.
3. Post "goods issue" for the returns delivery. The system automatically recognizes the returns delivery as goods receipt and
clears the original goods issue posting by carrying out the reverse posting. To post this goods receipt, proceed as if it were
actually a Goods Issue Posting .
4. Invoice the business transaction with a returns credit memo. The system automatically proposes the billing type. The
original billing document for the goods issue document that was incorrectly posted is cleared by this credit memo.
 Note
If no manual corrections are to be made or the subsequent processing is completed suddenly, you can set the status of the
entire worklist to complete by using the corresponding button in the button bar. The delivery can now be archived.

---

Goods Issue Reversal
Use
Goods issue reversal means that you cancel the goods issue posting for a delivery. This function enables you to remove the posting
without having to create a returns delivery and then having to post a goods receipt for it (see also Processing Returns After Goods
Issue Posting). This function can be especially useful if you have accidentally posted goods issue, for example, and you would like
to reverse it. Goods issue reversal usually occurs shortly after goods issue posting.
Integration
The cancellation document is integrated in the document flow of the delivery.
Prerequisites
Goods issue reversal is only possible for movement types for which a reversal movement type is defined in Customizing. Therefore,
if you have defined your own movement types for goods issue, you must also define the respective reversal movement types and
assign them to the movement types for goods issue.
Features
If you reverse goods issue for a delivery, the system creates a cancellation document that adopts the quantities and the valuation
from the original goods issue document, and also executes the respective value and quantity posting to stock.
Like the goods issue posting, the goods issue reversal is only possible for the entire delivery. You cannot reverse goods issue for
only part of a delivery.
After the reversal, the goods movement/goods issue status of the delivery is reset to "Not yet started". In this way, the delivery can
be processed further as required. The system also resets the delivery requirements.
If the delivery has already been billed partially or fully, the goods issue reversal is only possible after the billing document has been
cancelled.
Reverse Goods Issue
Prerequisites
For goods issue reversal, you can only select deliveries that have not yet been billed fully or partially, or whose billing has been
cancelled.
Procedure
1. From shipping, choose
Post Goods Issue   Cancellation/reversal
 Note
Once you implement a decentralized Warehouse Management System, you can no longer reverse goods issue that has already
been posted.

---

2. The Reverse goods movement screen appears.
3. Enter your selection criteria, for example, route, goods issue date, shipping point, and so on, and choose Execute.
4. A list of all deliveries that correspond to your selection criteria appears.
From the list of deliveries to be reversed, you can branch directly to a list entry in the delivery by double clicking on the
entry.
5. Select the deliveries for which you wish to reverse goods issue and choose Cancel/reverse.
6. A dialog box appears.
7. In the dialog box, confirm that you want to reverse goods issue.
Result
The system reverses goods issue for all selected deliveries. It also generates a log of all the reversals executed and any errors that
may have occurred.
