---
source: Pricing in Sales Documents.txt
module: SAP SD
title: Pricing in Sales Documents
---

# [Source: Pricing in Sales Documents.txt | Module: SAP SD]

Sales and Distribution (SD)

---

Pricing in Sales Documents
Use
This section is intended to provide an overview of the pricing elements used in order processing. In addition, the section shows you
how to work with pricing during day-to-day sales order processing. During pricing, the system calculates amounts based on a
combination of automatic procedures and manually entered data. The system automatically transfers pricing data - for example,
information about prices, surcharges, and discounts - from the condition records into sales and billing documents. Depending on
the pricing policies of your company, you may be able to change prices manually during sales order processing. You may, for
example, be able to enter or change certain discounts within a specified range.
Pricing Elements in Sales Order Processing
Use
All of the pricing elements that you use in your day-to-day pricing procedures - the prices, surcharges, discounts, freight charges,
and taxes - are defined in the R/3 system as condition types. This section gives you an overview of the pricing elements and their
corresponding condition types that appear in Sales & Distribution (SD). When you create or maintain pricing information for a
particular pricing element in the system, you create condition records. For more information about the tasks of creating and
maintaining conditions, see Condition Records.
Further Information
The task of actually defining condition types is part of system configuration and maintenance. For further information on condition
types, see Introduction to the Condition Technique .
Pricing Elements in the Standard Version
Pricing elements are divided into four categories:
Prices
Surcharges and Discounts
Freight Costs
Sales Taxes
When entering sales orders, the system can carry out an automatic check. During sales order entry, the system can calculate
prices automatically by finding a gross price, deducting all the relevant discounts and adding any surcharges such as freight and
sales tax. The following figure illustrates how the system represents various pricing elements of everyday business.

---

In the figure, you can see that the price of a material is represented by one condition type (PR00). However, the price of a material
can be based on different kinds of pricing records. The price can come from a price list; it can be specific to a particular customer,
or it may be a simple material price. On the other hand, each discount, surcharge, freight charge, and tax is defined by its own
condition type.
Prices
Use
In the standardversion of the SAP System, the basis of pricing during sales order processing is the gross price of a material. The
following kinds of price are predefined:
Material price
Price list type
Customer-specific price
Selecting from Competing Pricing Records
During automatic pricing, the system looks for a gross price. Since you can store different kinds of pricing information in the
system, pricing records can compete with each other in certain circumstances. For example, in addition to a basic material price,
you may have a special material price for a particular customer.
In the standard version of the SAP System, the system selects the most specific record - the customer-specific price. If no
customer-specific price exists, the system looks for a valid price list type. If no valid price list type exists, the system takes the
basic material price. This search strategy is determined during system configuration in Customizing for Sales and Distribution. For
further information, see Access Sequences .
Material Prices
When you create a material price, you specify:

---

A price or a pricing scale for a specific material
A combination of sales organization and distribution channel for which the material price is valid.
Price List Types
Depending on your company’s pricing policies, you can define your own price list types to suit the needs of your business. For
example, you can define price list types by customer groups (wholesale, retail, and so on) and by currency (price lists for each
foreign country you deal with). Condition records are created for each price list type. You do this using the same organizational
data as for material prices (sales organization, distribution channel). You can then assign price list types to each customer in the
their master record.
Customer-Specific Prices
If you give special prices to different customers, you can create customer-specific pricing records. In addition to the same
organizational data you enter for material prices (sales organization, distribution channel), you assign the pricing record to a
specific combination of customer and material.
Surcharges and discounts
Use
The standard version of the SAP System includes a variety of commonly used discounts. If your business requires it, you can
define special discounts and surcharges in Customizing for Sales.
Discounts in the Standard Version
The standard system includes, among many others, the following discounts:
Discount (Key)
Kind of discount
Customer (K007)
Percentage
Material (K004)
Absolute
Price group (K020)
Percentage
Material group (K029)
Absolute discount by weight
Customer/material (K005)
Absolute
Customer/material group (K030)
Percentage
Price group/material (K032)
Absolute
Price group/material group (K030)
Percentage
Rebate processing (BO01)
Group rebate (%)
 Note
In Customizing for Sales and Distribution, you can specify that pricing information assigned to a particular combination
of sales organization and distribution channel can be shared by other combinations. For more information, see the
online Implementation Guide .

---

Rebate processing (BO02)
Material rebate (fixed)
Rebate processing (BO03)
Customer rebate (%)
Inter-company processing (PI01)
Intercompany discount (fixed)
Inter-company billing (PI02)
Intercompany discount (%)
Invoice lists (RL00)
Factoring discount
Invoice lists (MW15)
Factoring discount tax
You can use any of these standard discounts to create condition records. During automatic pricing, the system considers the
discounts that apply in the circumstances and searches for valid condition records. In the case of discounts that refer to a group of
some kind (for example, material and price groups), you must assign the group in the corresponding customer or material master
record before automatic pricing takes place.
Further Information
For further information on these discounts, contact your system administrator. The system administrator will be able to tell you
how the the individual discounts are set up in the system. You can also, during sales order processing, branch from each pricing
element in the document to screens that give you more information. You can see, for example, some of the data - the relevant
condition record and pricing scale information, etc. - that the system uses to calculate a pricing element.
Freight Charges
Use
You can pass freight costs on to your customers by using special condition types that relate to shipping and freight charges. The
standard SD application component includes predefined condition types that are based on Incoterms.
Incoterms
Incoterms are the internationally recognized shipping terms that establish the respective liabilities of both the shipping party and
the recipient. For example, a common shipping term is FOB (Free on board). The term can be further qualified by adding the
loading port, for example, FOB Boston .
You can create condition records either:
Based solely on the first part of the Incoterm (for example, FOB)
Based on the combination of parts 1 and 2 (for example, FOB and Boston)
Freight Conditions
The standard version of the SAP System includes two predefined freight conditions:
Freight condition type KF00 applies to each item in a sales document. During automatic pricing, the system searches for
valid condition records that apply to this freight condition.
Freight condition type HD00 can only be applied to an entire document. You enter this freight manually during sales order
processing.

---

For further information on entering freight conditions, see Manual Pricing .
Sales Taxes
Use
The standard version of the SAP System includes condition types that define country-specific sales taxes. For example, there are
condition types for Value-Added Tax (VAT) for use in some European countries. For tax determination in the U.S. , the standard
system includes condition types for state, county, and city sales taxes, as well as taxes based on tax jurisdiction codes.
Automatic Calculation of Sales Taxes
During the automatic calculation of sales taxes, the system takes the following factors into account:
Whether the business being transacted is domestic or foreign
The tax classification of the customer's ship-to party.(Customers who are non-profit organizations, for example, may be
exempt from paying sales tax.)
The tax classification of the material.(Some products may not be taxed at all while others may have a reduced tax rate.)
With the help of these criteria, the tax rate per item is determined in the sales order. In Customizing, you set up a separate
condition type for the tax rate (taxes on sales and purchases).
Material Tax Classification
You specify the tax classification for a material in the material master record. During sales order processing, the system
automatically transfers the tax classification into the sales document.
Customer Tax Classification
You specify the tax classification for a customer in the customer master record. During sales order processing, the system
automatically transfers the tax classification into the sales document.
Predefined Price Elements
Use
You can use predefined price elements to edit frequently used price elements for a document type (prices and discounts, for
example) directly on the item overview . This means that the additional step on the Conditions tab page is no longer required.
Prerequisites
 Example
If there is a specific discount condition that you often have to enter manually in quotations, for example, you can use a
predefined price element. You can then enter the discounts on the item overview in quotation processing.

---

You make the settings for predefined price elements in the Implementation Guide (IMG) for Sales and Distribution, by choosing
Basic Functions   Pricing   Predefined Price Elements.
In the first step, you determine the price elements you want to edit on
the item overview for a document type. In the second step, you specify how the system identifies the predefined price elements in
pricing.
Under the IMG entry Predefine Price Elements in Sales Documents , you can specify which data is displayed on the item overview
for a predefined price element, such as condition rate, condition currency, price unit, and condition unit of measure. To get a better
overview, you can assign display options to a predefined price element.
Features
You can identify the predefined price elements in a pricing procedure using a condition type or a condition subtotal . By assigning
a predefined price element to a document type (inquiry, quotation, or sales order), you can edit and check the conditions or
subtotals for the listed items on the relevant item overview.
If you want to be able to edit price elements without restriction, edit the Conditions tab page for the header and the item.
Prerequisites for Automatic Pricing
For the system to automatically determine pricing, the following prerequisites must be met:
Condition records must already exist in the system for each of the condition types that you want the system to apply
automatically. For further information about creating and maintaining condition records, see Condition Records .
Where necessary, data must be maintained in the corresponding customer and material master records. If, for example,
you want to apply discounts to special groups of customers or materials, then the system can only carry out automatic
pricing when the groups are specified within the relevant customer or material master records.
Material Master Data
The price-related fields in the material master record can be found in the Sales: SalesOrg 1 and SalesOrg2 screens.
Tax classification: Indicates to what extent the material is liable for sales taxes.
Price material: In this field you can specify another material as a reference for pricing information. If you specify a
reference, the system, uses all the condition records that apply to the reference material during automatic pricing.
Material group: Defines a group of materials for which you want to apply the same condition record. For example, using a
material group, you can specify a discount that applies to a particular range of products.
Cash discount: In this field you can specify whether or not the material qualifies for a cash discount.
Customer Master Data
Most fields in the customer master record that relate to pricing appear on the Orders tab page under sales data.
Customer pricing procedure: Here you specify the pricing procedure for a customer. You create and maintain pricing
procedures in Customizing for Sales and Distribution. During sales order processing the pricing procedure determines the
kinds of pricing element you can use and in which sequence they are processed.
Price list: Price list types allow you to apply a material price in a particular currency to a group of customers. For example,
you can specify a price list type that applies to all wholesale customers in one of your export markets.
Price group: Price groups let you apply a discount to a particular group of customers.

---

Tax classification: (You can find tax classification on the Billing tab page.) You can maintain tax classifications for your
customers here.
Pricing Screens in Sales Documents
Use
The system displays pricing information for all sales documents on pricing screens . There is a pricing screen that shows pricing
information for the document header and a pricing screen that shows information for each item in the document. You specify the
condition types that appear in the pricing screens and the sequence in which they appear is controlled in Customizing for Sales
and Distribution.
Header Pricing Screen
No automatic pricing takes place at the header level of a document so the header pricing screen mostly displays a summary of the
pricing calculations for all items in the document. However, the header pricing screen also includes information about special
condition types that you can apply manually at the header level and that apply to all items in the document. For example, you can
manually enter a discount that the system automatically distributes among the various items according to factors such as order
quantity or weight. For further information on header conditions, see Freight Costs .
Item Pricing Screen
The item pricing screen displays details of each price element that applies to an item. For example, for each item in a sales order,
you can see the amounts, currency, and units or measure on which the system based its calculations.
Which Pricing Elements Appear in the Pricing Screens
You determine the kind and sequence of pricing elements that appear in the pricing screens in Customizing for Sales and
Distribution. Your system administrator determines which condition types you can work with and in which sequence they appear.
Example
The sequence consists of various pricing elements (price, discounts, and surcharges) and subtotals. For example, all the discounts
that apply in this case are subtotalled before the surcharge for freight costs is added. The system then calculates the appropriate
sales tax and finally produces a net value for the order.
Statistical Pricing Elements
Statistical pricing elements - such as cash discount, cost, and profit margin - are for information only and have no effect on the net
order value. They appear at the bottom of the pricing screen.
How to Select Pricing Screens
When you are working in a document, you can branch to the header and item pricing screens:
To reach the header pricing screen, choose
Goto   Header   Conditions   .
To reach the item pricing screen, mark the appropriate item and choose
Goto   Item   Conditions   .
Header and Item Conditions

---

Use
The standard system includes condition types that you can only apply at the header level, the header conditions . Condition types
that you can only use for items are called item conditions . The standard system also includes some condition types that can be
used both at header and item level: Percent from gross (RA01) Absolute discount (RB00) Weight discount (RD00).
Header Conditions
Automatic pricing does not take header conditions into account; you can not create condition records for them in the standard
system. Header conditions are entered manually in order processing. The SAP System includes the following header conditions:
Percent discount (HA00)
Absolute discount (HB00)
Freight (HD00)
Order value (HM00)
Item Conditions
In the standard system, most condition types are defined as item conditions. Examples of item conditions are:
Material discount (K004)
Customer/Material (K005)
Customer discount (K007)
Material price (PR01)
Displaying Header and Item Conditions
From the header and item pricing screens, you can branch to detailed information about each condition type that appears. From
the header pricing screen, place the cursor on the condition for which you require detailed information.
In the header price screen, choose Condition detail. The system displays data it uses to calculate the amount of the
condition (for example, the kind of pricing scale, quantity conversion, the scale base value, the document currency, and so
on). From the details screen, you can choose
Goto   Condition record
to see the specific condition record that the
system accesses. From the item pricing screen, select the condition for which you require detailed information.
Accordingly choose Condition detail in the item price screen. To see the specific condition record that the system
accesses, choose
Goto   Condition record
Manual Pricing
Use
During sales order processing, you can manipulate pricing at both the header and item level. The options for manual processing of
a price screen depend on the individual condition types. In Customizing the level of manipulability for each condition type is
precisely defined. The following definitions are possible:
A condition type is not restricted with regard to its manual processing (for example, the entry of freight costs).

---

Manual entries have priority over results of pricing determined automatically or vice versa.
A condition type cannot be changed manually (for example, in the case of automatically determined sales taxes).
Making Changes During Manual Processing
Depending on the extent to which manual processing is allowed for a condition type, you can perform the following activities
during sales order processing:
You can change a condition amount.
You can delete a pricing element.
You can enter additional pricing elements.
If you want to add pricing elements to a sales document, you can only enter pricing elements for which corresponding condition
types are defined and for which manual processing is allowed.
Adding Pricing Elements Manually
You can enter pricing elements manually at both the header and item level.
Adding an Item Condition Manually
To enter a customer discount manually in the pricing screen of a sales order item:
1. In the pricing screen of the sales order, choose Add line .
2. You reach the data screen where you can enter an additional condition.
3. Enter the customer discount K007 in the Condition type field.
4. Enter a percentage rate in the Rate field.
5. Select ENTER .
The system automatically inserts the new condition according to the sequence specified in the corresponding pricing procedure.
Adding a Header Condition Manually
When including header conditions in the header pricing screen, proceed in the same way as described for item conditions.
Afterwards you must activate pricing, by choosing Activate. When you activate the header condition, the system distributes the
condition value proportionally among the various items in the sales document. This distribution can be based on the order value of
each individual item or on other criteria specified in Customizing for Sales. For further information on header conditions, see
Requirements for Automatic Pricing .
Changing Pricing Elements in Pricing Screens
Depending on how the condition types in your system have been configured, you can change automatically determined prices in
the item pricing screen. If changes are allowed, you may be able, for example, to change the following data:
 Note
You can choose Update prices on the pricing screen for a document item. To do this, you must select a pricing type. The prices
will be updated according to the pricing type you selected.

---

The rate (for example, the amount of a price or the percentage of a discount).
The currency in which the amount is calculated.
The units of measure used to calculate the amount.
Some condition types (for example, sales taxes, and cash discount) cannot usually be changed manually.
Deleting Pricing Elements in the Header and Item Pricing Screens
You can delete most conditions in the pricing screens. Whether a condition type may be deleted is determined by the condition
type set in Customizing for Sales.
To delete a condition, position the cursor on the corresponding condition and choose Delete line .
The system automatically recalculates pricing for the entire document.
Distribution Between Header and Items
Use
Header conditionsapply to all items in the document and are automatically distributed to the items. A header condition can be
based on either a percentage or on an absolute amount. If you enter a header condition that is based on a percentage (for
example, a discount of 2%) the system automatically applies this percentage to all items in the document. If the header
condition is an absolute amount, there are two different ways in which the system can distribute the amount among the items
in the document:
The condition value of a header condition is either
distributed proportionally among the items or
the amount entered at header level is duplicated for each item.
You control the distribution of absolute header conditions in the group price field per condition type. In the standard version,
condition type HB00 is marked as a header condition and as group condition. Condition type RB00 is only marked as a header
condition:
Condition type
Description
HB00
Header discount distributed as percentage because it is marked as
a header condition and as a group condition
RB00
Assigns the header discount to every item, because it is only
marked as a header condition
Example
 Note
Header conditions cannot be entered or changed at the item level, and item conditions cannot be entered or changed at the
header level. Conditions that are defined as both header and item conditions can be edited at both levels.

---

The following figure illustrates examples of the two variations. If you enter an absolute discount with condition type RB00 , the
system takes the amount you enter as a header condition and copies the identical amount for each item in the document. In the
example, the absolute discount of USD 90 appears in each item. The total condition value for the document is USD 270. However, if
you enter an absolute discount with condition type HB00 , the system distributes the amount proportionally among the various
items, in this case, according to value of the items. In the example, the absolute discount of USD 90 is distributed proportionally
among the items. The total condition value for the document is USD 90.
Implementing a New Pricing Procedure.
 Note
The distribution of an absolute header condition need not be based on value. For example you can specify in Customizing for
Sales that the distribution is based on the weight or volume of the different items. You specify the basis of the distribution in the
Alternative condition basevalue field in the pricing screen.
 Note
Rounding differences can occur during the distribution of absolute amounts. The system automatically evens these out by
proposing the remainder to the largest item so that the value in the header is identical to the total of the values in the items.
Example:
A position has a net value of 200 USD, the second item has a value of 100 USD. A header surcharge of 10 USD should be
allocated. The system sets a surcharge of 6.67 USD in the first item and 3.33 USD in the second item.

---

Use
You can implement a new pricing procedure in a sales or billing document. on the condition screens at item and header level.
In many cases, you may only want to redetermine tax or freight or you may want to receive manual conditions in spite of the
revaluation. You can therefore agree a pricing type for a new pricing procedure in the dialog box.
The ‘Update prices’ function can also be implemented in the menu without a dialog box via Edit - > New pricing document
(Transaction VA01 and VA02). In this case the pricing type which has been assigned to the pricing procedure in Customizing is
valid. If no value is given, the pricing type "B" applies.
Selecting a pricing type is also possible for collective changes using transaction VA05.
Pricing Analysis
Use
With this function you can understand how the system has determined the pricing conditions in a business document. To use this
function, you can branch from the item pricing screen to the analysis screen for condition determination. You receive a list of all
conditions for an item and a short overview of the transaction in automatic pricing. This information allows you to check how the
system calculated the various pricing elements for an item.
Features
The analysis screen is divided into the following parts:
In the left-hand side of the screen, an overview tree shows the four levels of pricing. These are as follows:
Pricing procedure
Condition types
Accesses
Any condition records found
In the upper right-hand side of the screen, you receive more detailed information for the level of the overview tree that you have
selected.
At condition type level, you receive information on the number of accesses and why accesses have not been performed. If a
requirement for a condition type in the pricing procedure has not been met, you have the option to display routines by
selecting Additional information.
At the access level, you receive information on which fields work with an access. By selecting Technical view, you can see
the field names for an access.
At condition record level, you can branch into the relevant condition record.
In the lower right-hand side of the screen, you receive additional documentation for the access and condition levels.
