---
source: s4hana221.pdf
module: SAP S/4HANA
title: s4hana221
---

# [Source: s4hana221.pdf | Page: 1 | Module: SAP S/4HANA]

Key Feature
Use
KPI, Report, and Stories Visualization
With this, you can:
Visualize and comprehend data from different virtual data models that
represent different business areas.
Configure business metrics, interpret and interact with your data in real-
time; visualize, and analyze the data.
Create reports for the same KPIs.
Integrate and visualize embedded stories for data analysis
2.14 Enterprise Technology
When SAP S/4HANA applications are deployed on an SAP HANA runtime database, all Enterprise Technology
solutions made available to you under your SAP S/4HANA application license/subscription are “Runtime
Software” (i.e. as defined in the applicable SAP Software Use Rights document), and thus may only be
used to enable performance of the licensed/subscribed to SAP S/4HANA applications. As such, and for the
avoidance of doubt, application(s) and/or technology(ies) that are not licensed/subscribed to from SAP may
NOT access the SAP HANA runtime database via any Enterprise Technology solution(s); rather, such access is
only permissible via the SAP S/4HANA application layer.
2.14.1  ABAP Platform
ABAP platform is the foundation for ABAP-based SAP solutions that build on top of the database and data
management platform of SAP HANA.
2.14.1.1  Operating the Application Server for ABAP
Administrators can use the concepts and functions of the SAP Application Server for ABAP (AS ABAP) as a
basis for the monitoring and administration of AS ABAP.
Key Features
The following features are available:

---

General Administration Tasks
Key Feature
Use
Managing SAP licenses
Assign license keys for SAP systems, determine the number
of users and used engines of the SAP software for each sys-
tem, and consolidate measurement results of one or more
systems.
Configuring AS ABAP
Configure AS ABAP using profile parameters. For central
scenarios you do not need to explicitly set parameter val-
ues, since defaults are set and values adapt automatically
to physical conditions. Manual configuration of additional
scenarios is possible.
Starting and stopping AS ABAP
Start and stop individual instances of your AS ABAP system
or the complete system.
Managing and monitoring your AS ABAP within your system
landscape
Use SAP Cloud ALM and SAP Focused RUN to manage and
monitor several AS ABAP systems centrally within your sys-
tem landscape. The functional scope of SAP Cloud ALM and
SAP Focused RUN that is supported for SAP S/4HANA de-
pends on your SAP maintenance contract: See also [https://
support.sap.com/en/alm/usage-rights.html
Providing and managing hosts, instances, databases, or sys-
tems
Provide, monitor, and control any host, instance, database,
or SAP system centrally.
Managing network access to your SAP systems and config-
uring load balancing
Configure the access you want to allow to your SAP network
and define access points for Web requests to your network.
Such requests can be distributed (using load balancing) be-
tween individual Application Servers of your SAP system.
Printing
SAP provides its own spool service and a spool database for
printing.
E-mailing
Send e-mails from and receive e-mails within the AS ABAP.
Streamline your e-mail correspondence by creating custom
templates based on predelivered templates.
Scheduling batch jobs
Schedule local batch jobs in your AS ABAP system.
Backing up and restoring your SAP system
Back up and restore your SAP system on operating system
level and database level, if required.

---

Key Feature
Use
Archiving your data
Use the data archiving functions to archive any completed
business transactions that are no longer relevant for your
daily operations, and so significantly reduce the load on the
database. SAP S/4HANA uses the functions for archiving
provided by the ABAP platform.
Enabling your system for SAP remote support
Set up a remote service connection for each ABAP system
to use SAP remote services (for example, SAP EarlyWatch
or Remote Consulting), or if you would like to permit an SAP
support consultant to work directly in your system to make a
more precise problem diagnosis.
Local Administration Tasks for AS ABAP
Key Feature
Use
Exchanging the kernel without system downtime
Use an automated procedure to automatically exchange the
kernel in an ABAP system, or to make parameter changes
while the system is running.
Monitoring components of AS ABAP
Check the consistency of an installation, get an overview
of all application server instances and their states, monitor
processes, users, lock entries, Internet requests, RFC con-
nections, and RFC calls, and cross-component processes.
Configuring and administering special AS ABAP compo-
nents
Configure asynchronous RFCs, logon load balancing, opera-
tion modes, area menus, and the number range buffer.
You can also send important notifications to all users that
are logged on to the ABAP system in the form of short
messages. It depends on the UI technologies whether these
messages are consumed.
Troubleshooting
Use the trace function, the ABAP dump analysis, and the
system log to identify and solve issues.
Managing concurrent database access
The SAP system is equipped with a special lock mechanism
that synchronizes database access. The purpose of the lock
mechanism is to prevent two transactions from changing the
same data in the database simultaneously.
You can configure, administer, and monitor database up-
dates related to ABAP transactions.

---

Key Feature
Use
Managing the available memory of your ABAP system
Use profile parameters to configure SAP Memory Manage-
ment in order to adjust the ABAP Server to hardware and
software requirements.
Managing background processing
Configure and monitor background processing of the AS
ABAP, and schedule and manage local background jobs.
Other Administration-Related Services for AS ABAP
Key Feature
Use
Managing alerts
Inform responsible or interested parties immediately via a
predefined alert if the application detects a critical situation
and triggers the alert management to create the alert.
Database Administration for SAP HANA
Key Feature
Use
Starting and stopping the SAP HANA database
Start and stop the SAP HANA database.
Monitoring and administering the SAP HANA database
Monitor and administer local or remote SAP HANA data-
bases in SAP systems in an ABAP environment.

---

Software Logistics
Key Feature
Use
Managing and transporting development objects
Organize ABAP development projects and transport changes
between SAP systems in your system landscape.
In addition to the classic Change and Transport System
(CTS), you can leverage Git repositories to store ABAP con-
tent and to provide it to ABAP systems.
You can also copy ABAP clients and transport languages.
Similar to ABAP objects, you can also transport SAP-specific
non-ABAP applications in your system landscape. A close
integration for transporting development objects of ABAP
and SAP HANA is provided.
Other Tasks
Key Feature
Use
Maintaining Employees
Maintain business users with business role “Employee”, with
a workplace address, and a user assignment.
2.14.1.2  ABAP Large Language Model Access
Business Background
Artificial intelligence has become a powerful tool in today's economy. This is also true for software
development. Thus, the ABAP Platform provides access to a variety of Large Language Models (LLMs) to
increase efficiency and productivity of modern software development.

---

Key Features
The following features are available:
Key Feature
Use
Accessing
LLMs
Accessing a variety of different LLMs to build AI-based applications.
Communicat-
ing with LLMs
Sending prompts to an LLM and receiving its response.
Configuring
LLMs by set-
ting their pa-
rameters
When supported by the LLM you use, you can set its parameters to leverage the LLM the best way
possible to fit for your application.
Using Media In-
put
When supported by the LLM you use, you can add media input (images, documents, etc.) to your LLM
requests.
2.14.1.3  Custom Application Development for ABAP
Business Background
A key ingredient for business applications is custom development. The ABAP development environment offers
a wide range of options for custom application development from extensions and modification of SAP standard
applications by customers up to the development of completely new applications.
Key Features
The following key features are available:
ABAP Language
ABAP is a fourth-generation (4GL) as well as an object-oriented programming language developed and
constantly improved/enhanced by SAP for programming business applications in the SAP environment.
Key Feature
Use
Internal tables
Store and process mass table data dynamically in the work-
ing memory.

---

Key Feature
Use
Managing updates of data in the database
Use the concept of the SAP Logical Unit of Work (LUW) inte-
grated into the ABAP runtime environment which enables
multiple users to access the central database at the same
time.
Using external interfaces
Use Remote Function Call as an interface to other program-
ming environments.
Use the Internet Communication Framework (ICF) as an in-
terface to the Internet.
Use the built-in transformation capabilities to support XML
and JSON.
Supporting UIs in multiple languages
Extract language-specific program components from the
source code, which are reloaded when the program executes
in accordance with the environment.
Data Modeling
Data modeling provides capabilities for defining data models in the database that can be used for business
applications.
Key Feature
Use
ABAP Dictionary
Maintain data types in a persistent repository that are visible
in all repository objects. The database tables of the central
database, views, and lock objects are managed in ABAP Dic-
tionary.
ABAP Core Data Services (CDS)
Implement SAP’s CDS concept for AS ABAP. The concept
provides a platform-independent Data Definition Language
(DDL) to define CDS entities that implement a semantically
rich data model.
Database Access
Database access provides capabilities for accessing database entities.
Key Feature
Use
ABAP SQL
Access data through ABAP SQL statements integrated into
the ABAP programming language. The ABAP statements
allow access to ABAP-managed database objects in SAP
HANA defined in the ABAP Dictionary or by ABAP CDS.

---

Key Feature
Use
Native SQL
Platform-dependent access to a database. Native SQL in-
cludes an embedded static access (EXEC SQL ABAP state-
ment), a class-based, general purpose access in SAP HANA
using ABAP Database Connectivity, and ABAP-managed da-
tabase procedures.
ABAP RESTful Application Programming Model (RAP)
The ABAP RESTful Application Programming Model (RAP) supports the model-driven development of
transactional enterprise SAP Fiori applications and Web APIs that are intrinsically optimized for SAP HANA.
RAP is based on technologies and frameworks such as Core Data Services (CDS) for defining semantically rich
data models, the ABAP language enhanced with the Entity Manipulation Language (EML) for implementing the
custom business logic, and a business service model infrastructure for creating business services.
Key Feature
Use
Developing brownfield applications
Develop OData services (V2 or V4) using existing code with
the unmanaged implementation type. Draft handling is sup-
ported.
Developing greenfield applications
Develop OData services (V2 or V4) from scratch with
the managed implementation type based on determina-
tions/validations. Draft handling is supported.
Creating data models for entities (read-only access) and
business objects (transactional access) using CDS views
A data model that defines the data structure explicitly, such
as relations between datasets, data semantics, and their re-
strictions.
Defining the behavior of business objects
Define the lifecycle operations on the data, such as create,
update and delete, further operations such as actions and
transactional properties of the data model.
Implementing business objects
Supply the business logic for the behavior definition in ABAP.
Defining service definitions
Define the scope of a business service by exposing the rele-
vant CDS entities.
Creating service binding
Expose a business service by binding its service definition to
a protocol and a scenario. Consume a business service via
OData (V2 or V4) or InA protocol or as SQL - Web API.
Developing RAP Business Events
Define and raise RAP Business Events in a business object.
ABAP Programming Model for SAP Fiori
The ABAP Programming Model for SAP Fiori (Application Infrastructure) adopts technical details from the
application development and improves the overall development process.
New applications shall be implemented using the ABAP RESTful Application Programming Model (RAP).

---

Key Feature
Use
Exposing CDS views through OData
Generate OData services based on CDS views without any
additional implementation.
Supporting transactional applications on a stateless proto-
col via draft
Expose CDS-based BOPF business objects through stateless
OData services.
Business Object Processing Framework (BOPF)
The Business Object Processing Framework is an ABAP object-oriented framework that provides a set of
generic services and functionalities to speed up, standardize, and modularize your development. BOPF
manages the entire life cycle of your business objects and covers all aspects of your business application
development.
New applications shall be implemented using the ABAP RESTful Application Programming Model (RAP).
Key Feature
Use
Creating and defining business objects
Create new business objects in order to encapsulate busi-
ness logic and data to be exposed through common inter-
face.
Use BOPF tools for developing and testing business objects.
Enhancing business objects
Enhance existing business objects through custom business
logic and data.
Integrating as well as combing business objects and non-
BOPF applications
Invoke application logic that is not built on BOPF through
BOPF objects and vice versa.
Reusing application infrastructure
Reduce development and maintenance effort through reuse
of existing BOPF services.
Server Technology
The components of the infrastructure server technology provide a reusable runtime environment for other
components that also uses client server technology to process requests.
Key Feature
Use
Application Server ABAP
Use the ABAP runtime environment as a virtual machine for
ABAP programs.
Building globalized custom applications
Build globalized custom applications using internationaliza-
tion technologies and data encodings.
Internationalization
Provides technologies and data encodings for building glo-
balized custom applications.

---

ABAP Development Tools
The ABAP development tools enable ABAP developers to build their own applications and features using the
ABAP programming language and the ABAP Application Server capabilities in an Eclipse-based IDE or on the
classic SAP GUI-based ABAP Workbench.
Key Feature
Use
Creating and managing data definitions
Specify ABAP coding such as reports and includes, function
modules, classes, and interfaces.
Use ABAP Dictionary artifacts such as structures and data
elements to create and manage data definitions (metadata).
Rearranging table columns to application-specific needs
Build CDS views on existing database tables using Core Data
Services.
Converting between ABAP data and XML formats
Describe transformations between ABAP data and XML for-
mats using transformations (XSLT and ST).
Error handling
Use options such as message classes to inform the user
about an error or a status, or to issue a warning
Developing SAP standard UI technology
Use the supported UI Technologies [page 222] to develop
SAP solutions
Modularizing and encapsulating development objects
Modularize SAP systems and encapsulate development ob-
jects using packages and package interfaces.
Managing the lifecycle of development activities
Modularize, encapsulate, and decouple units in the SAP Sys-
tem using a Package Builder.
Transport objects to other SAP systems.
Creating and managing workflow scenarios
Build scenarios to enable flexible workflow creation, and pre-
pare an environment for modeling workflows
ABAP Testing and Quality Tools
The AS ABAP offers a set of specialized test and analysis tools that are useful at different phases of the
software lifecycle (development, testing, and production).

---

Key Feature
Use
Checking code quality
Use static checks of the ABAP Test Cockpit (ATC) and the
Code Inspector to analyze customer code for functional, us-
ability, or performance issues.
Use the remote ATC checks to verify code quality on older
SAP NetWeaver releases with the latest check version.
Use static checks of the Code Vulnerability Analyzer (extra
license required) to analyze customer code for possible se-
curity vulnerabilities.
Unit testing ABAP programs
Use ABAP Unit test classes to develop and execute test
classes that ensure the correct behavior of program logic.
ABAP Troubleshooting Tools
The ABAP Troubleshooting Tools enable you to detect functional and performance issues through debugging,
tracing, monitoring, and logging applications.
Key Feature
Use
Debugging
Set breakpoints and step through a running ABAP applica-
tion, analyze and change variable values, and examine the
call stack to understand the program integration in the gen-
eral application context. Debug ABAP-managed database
procedures (AMDP) and simple transformations.
Profiling ABAP source code
Create ABAP trace files to analyze the distribution of an ap-
plication’s time consumption with respect to database and
ABAP runtime.
Also, to significantly improve the overall performance and
detect hotspots such as:
SQL accesses
ABAP procedures or statements with poor performance
redundant executions of same program parts
Monitoring SQL performance of an ABAP system
Collect essential SQL performance data along with the ABAP
contexts of all SQL statements performed in an ABAP sys-
tem. Analyze the collected data for time intervals of your
choice.
Dynamic logging
Create dynamic logpoints for specific code positions to gain
runtime information like the number of executions, variable
values, call stack information, or to use them for triggering
system functions like the SQL trace. It is not necessary to
change source code in order to use dynamic logpoints.

---

Extensibility
The extensibility configuration framework allows different interface implementations of the application parts to
be exchanged during the runtime of an application.
Key Feature
Use
Create custom fields, data source extensions, and custom
logic
Create your own fields and enhancement implementations
for specific business contexts of extensible applications. En-
able the usage of existing fields in predelivered data sources
using data source extensions.
Custom Fields
You can translate the fields that you created into differ-
ent languages and enable field usage for UIs, reports,
email templates, form templates, business scenarios,
and APIs.
You can make field content relevant for free-text search.
You can choose the aggregation behavior of fields.
You can delete already transported fields..
Data Source Extensions
You can create, edit, and delete data source extensions
in order to enable the usage of existing fields in predeliv-
ered data sources.
Custom Logic
You can implement custom logic with ABAP for key
users in your enhancement implementation.
You can create and save variants for testing custom
logic with predefined parameters.
You can create and save filters to define under which
conditions the logic of an enhancement implementation
is used.
You can publish fields and enhancement implementations
and thus generate them in the extensible applications in
your test system. You can edit fields and enhancement im-
plementations even after they have already been published.
You can delete fields and enhancement implementations.
Manage custom logic after upgrades
Adapt enhancements and modifications after an upgrade
or support package implementation due to changes in SAP
applications.
Create enhancement options
Create, edit, and delete enhancement options for Business
Add-ins (BAdI) or source code plug-ins to make custom ap-
plications for ABAP extensible.

---

Key Feature
Use
Customizing analytical queries
Design a meaningful query for analyzing and reporting pur-
poses without knowing query language and other technical
details. Perform various operations such as create a new
query, copy from the existing query, modify the query, add/
remove custom fields, adding dimensions and measures
from the data view, defining filters, and preview result set.
Create custom reusable elements
You can create reusable custom libraries for consumption in
custom logic extensions or custom objects. You can create
translatable custom code lists for reuse across custom busi-
ness objects.
Create custom CDS views
You can create and maintain custom CDS views based on
the virtual data model delivered by SAP. You can define pro-
jections and add associations to your custom CDS views.
You can maintain parameters, filters and calculated fields.
You can define custom CDS views without a scenario or as
cubes, dimensions or for usage as external API.
Create traces
You can create traces to track the processing of custom logic
in custom objects, custom reusable elements and enhance-
ment implementations.
Create custom business objects
Create new custom business objects, and generate OData
services based on custom business objects.You can enable
associations between your custom business objects. You
can add fields to and delete fields from custom business
objects. You can add multiple subnodes to a custom busi-
ness object, and implement custom logic with ABAP for key
users. You can edit and publish a custom business object,
and delete the draft of a custom business object. You can
delete custom business objects.
Display list of extension items
You can view a list of your extensibility items, and the de-
pendencies between them.
View namespaces
You can view namespaces which were used for extension
item development.
Configure software packages
You can configure software packages to be used for exten-
sion item development.
Register extension items for transport
You can assign extension items to a transport.

---

2.14.1.4  Security for ABAP
Business Background
In today's world of collaborative business processes and open system environments, security no longer means
just adding a firewall and using passwords to log on. It requires a complete approach that not only applies
to your own IT landscape, but also to issues that arise beyond your own borders, in which even simple
organizational measures can have a significant impact. The infrastructure of the ABAP platform supports you
by delivering comprehensive security features for heterogeneous environments.
Key Features
The following features are available:
Key Feature
Use
Authorization management
Assign authorizations to users with roles. Create roles. Mass
maintenance enables authorization management for many
users.
User information system allows for reporting of roles and
their authorizations.
Identity management
Define user validity. Maintain user master data. Set user
types. Support for mass maintenance of user data. Dele-
gated user administration.
User information system allows for reporting of users. Syn-
chronize users data with other systems.
Central user administration
Push users and authorizations from a central system in a
system landscape.
Security policy
Define security policies to control password policies, logon
policies, and policies for logon IDs.

---

Key Feature
Use
User authentication and single sign-on
Configure the authentication methods and policies sup-
ported by the system. For the following scenarios, SAP Net-
Weaver Application Server supports the following authenti-
cation and single sign-on (SSO) methods:
SAP GUI logon
Password-based authentication
SSO for SAP Shortcuts
SSO with an external SNC product
Web-based logon
Password-based authentication
SSO with logon tickets
SSO with X.509 client certificates
Kerberos with SPNego
Requires a license with SAP Single Sign-On to sup-
port
SSO with external SAML 2.0 identity provider
SOAP Web Services
Transport level authentication and SSO with user
ID and password, X.509 certificates, and authenti-
cation assertion tickets.
Message level authentication using user name to-
ken, X.509 certificate token, and SAML token. You
can also use WS-specific security and authentica-
tion mechanisms, such as XML encryption, XML
signatures, Message Aging, and WS SecureConver-
sation
OAuth 2.0 authorization framework
Acts as both resource server and authorization
server in the same system for OData requests
Can act as client
Log off methods where possible
Digital signatures and encryption
Encrypt data during transport: Support of transport layer
security (TLS), secure network communication (SNC), and
web service security. Digitally sign and verify signed docu-
ments. Manage digital keys.
