---
source: Sales and Distribution (SD).txt
module: SAP SD
title: Sales and Distribution (SD)
---

# [Source: Sales and Distribution (SD).txt | Module: SAP SD]

Sales and Distribution (SD)

---

Delivery Orders
Use
You create a delivery order in the SAP System from a pick-up sheet sent in by the customer. This can be done automatically from a
pick-up sheet IDoc or manually.
The delivery order contains information detailing the material(s) to be picked up by the customer’s forwarding agent and the pick-
up date and times. It is based on one or more scheduling agreements for delivery orders.
The pick-up sheet and its corresponding document in the SAP system, the delivery order, are used in a similar way to the just-in-
time (JIT) delivery schedule.
Features
Since the delivery order has been modeled after the sales order, you can create a delivery order with the full range of sales order
functions.
The SAP System contains a sales document type and item category specifically for processing delivery orders:
Sales document type TAM
Item category TAMA
The following characteristics are specific to delivery orders:
The system sets the pick-up date as the delivery date . Although you can enter several materials in a delivery order, there
can only be one “delivery” date for all of the items. You can view this date in the schedule line item detail.
The system sets the pick-up date as the pricing date in the sales overview.
There are special conventions for copying packing instruction s .
In scheduling agreements with delivery orders, deliveries are created from delivery orders. To be able to copy packing
proposals from the scheduling agreement to the delivery, you must first copy them to the delivery order.
In delivery order processing, packing proposals are either copied directly from the pick-up sheet, or you enter them
manually. When you save a delivery order, the system determines if there are any packing proposals to consider.
If there are none, the system accesses the scheduling agreement and copies any proposals there to the delivery order. It
only does this, however, when at least one of the following applies:
You have specified in Customizing that proposals are to be copied to the delivery
Choose
Logistics Execution   Shipping   Copyingcontrol   Specify copy control for deliveries
and maintain the Data
transfer ShUn (data transfer shipping unit) field.
There is a packing proposal for at least one other item in the delivery order
When the customer gives you packing instructions on one item in the pick-up sheet, they usually want all items in the pick-
up sheet to be packed.
You can influence how the system copies packing proposals with a user exit .
You cannot use items that are not attached to a scheduling agreement for delivery orders. The different types of
cumulative quantities used in delivery order processing require that they be recorded and updated centrally in

---

scheduling agreements of this type.
The delivery order generates new requirements , which the delivery reduces from those generated by the related
scheduling agreement(s).
Cumulative quantities in the scheduling agreement are based on the delivery order, not the delivery.
For a change of year , you can post cumulative quantities to another period by maintaining a date field in the
delivery order header.
You cannot enter or change data in the delivery tolerance section for shipping (item detail). This is because the
customer specifies in the pick-up sheet exactly how much of a material is required. It is this exact quantity that is, as
a rule, delivered to the customer.
Creating Delivery Orders
Prerequisites
Before creating a delivery order, you must first have received a pick-up sheet from the customer by fax or, ideally, by Electronic
Data Interchange (EDI).
You can create a delivery order only on the basis of a scheduling agreement for delivery orders. A valid scheduling agreement (type
LZM ) is therefore required.
Procedure
Other than entering data specific to delivery orders, you create a delivery order in the same way as a standard sales order .
1. Create an order using sales document type TAM with reference to a scheduling agreement.
2. A dialog box appears.
3. Enter data to find the related scheduling agreement.
4. Use the customer material number in the pick-up sheet as a basis for this search, or any of the other search options. If
there is more than one scheduling agreement that matches your criteria, simply choose the appropriate one from the
selection list.
5. Specify the pick-up date and times.
6. If you do not use EDI, enter the pick-up date and times manually from the pick-up sheet. These date and times are of
central importance in the delivery order. You cannot continue processing until you have entered this information.
If you wish to enter a pick-up date or times different from those in the pick-up sheet, or change the date or times proposed
by the system from the IDoc, you must inform the forwarding agent.
7. Choose Enter .
8. The system copies data from the dialog box into the delivery order entry screen. It also copies the material and customer
material from the scheduling agreement.
9. In the purchase order number field, enter the pick-up sheet number.
10. In this way, you associate the delivery order with the pick-up sheet. This helps keep the document flow transparent when
dealing with an external document such as the pick-up sheet. You can, for example, display the delivery order and this pick-

---

up sheet number (as the purchase order number) in the scheduling agreement .
11. Enter the quantity requested by the customer in the pick-up sheet.
12. Enter additional information, as required.
All data required for delivery order processing is in the pick-up sheet. You may want to enter additional data, however, for
information purposes. Scroll right in the item overview to enter a sequence number or receiving point, for example.
To enter an additional material, choose
Sales document   Create with reference to scheduling agreement
again.
Deliveries for Delivery Orders
Use
You create a delivery to prepare the order items for pick up by the customer’s forwarding agent.
Features
When processing deliveries for delivery orders, note that:
You create a standard delivery for a delivery order.
The delivery date is the pick-up date.
You can create a delivery for each unloading point. If there is more than one unloading point involved (and consequently
several deliveries), you can combine deliveries into one shipment to ensure that the customer receives all the items
together.
The customer and forwarding agent plan according to the pick-up sheet. If you cannot deliver the order in full, or if you want
to change the delivery date and times, you must inform your business partners.
If you cannot deliver the order in full, you can create a partial delivery, then a subsequent delivery. You can also configure
the system beforehand to set the order to complete if a delivery cannot be delivered in full.
There are special conventions for copying packing proposals.
You cannot print material tags for complete shipments, but rather for each delivery. Collective shipments are not possible
in delivery order processing because each delivery goes to a different unloading point.
Cumulative quantities in the scheduling agreement are based on delivery orders, not deliveries.
Billing Documents for Delivery Orders
Use
When you create a billing document for a delivery order, all data relevant to billing is copied from the delivery order and delivery.
 Caution
Items cannot be deleted once you have saved the delivery order. This is to ensure that the original customer requirements sent
by EDI are not changed. If you accidentally enter an item that you later do not want, simply reject it.

---

Features
When processing billing documents for delivery orders, note that:
You create a standard billing document for a delivery order.
Self-billing can be used in delivery order processing. The customer uses the pick-up sheet number as the basis for settling
payment.
Returns for Delivery Orders
Use
You can create a return for delivery order items.
Features
When processing returns for delivery orders, note that:
The standard system contains the sales document type RM for delivery order returns. You create a return for delivery
orders in the same way as a standard return .
Choose Goods issue to post goods receipt.
Cumulative quantities are not updated automatically. You must correct them manually.
User Exits for Delivery Orders
Use
With this customer function, you can control how the system copies packing proposals into the delivery order.
When you mark the flag E_COPY in this user exit, the system copies existing packing proposals from scheduling agreements to the
delivery order for items that do not have proposals. The system does this even if you have not maintained the Data transfer ShUn
(data transfer shipping unit) field in Customizing for Shipping.
If you leave this flag blank, the system does not copy packing proposals from the scheduling agreement under any circumstances.
Activate this customer function by setting the flag E_ACTIVE.
