---
source: Sales and Distribution.pdf
module: SAP SD
title: Sales and Distribution
---

# [Source: Sales and Distribution.pdf | Module: SAP SD]

2026-04-10
Sales and distribution monitor
© 2026 SAP SE or an SAP affiliate company. All rights reserved.

---

Content
Sales and distribution monitor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Selection Screen. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
2.1
2.2
Tabs for Individual SD Document Types. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
"Sales Documents" Tab. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Stock Transfers (STOs) Tab. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
2.3
"Condition Records" Tab. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
2.4
3.1
Document Overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Warehouse Stock Indicators. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Sales Documents. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Stock Transport Orders. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
Billing Documents. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
3.2
Sales and distribution monitor
Content

---

Sales and distribution monitor
The sales and distribution monitor (SDM) is an application for analyzing and updating sales and distribution
documents (document overview) and price conditions (condition record analysis).
The document overview supports the following SD document categories:
Sales Documents
Stock Transport Orders
Deliveries
Billing Documents
The SDM provides an overview of all relevant information for the selected documents at header, item, and,
where applicable, schedule line level. In addition to predefined filter and aggregation options, you can navigate
to standard SAP transactions so that the monitor can be used as an easy access point for processing SD
documents.
The condition record analysis of SDM enables the analysis and processing of cross-sales-organization
condition records. In addition to processing on the results screen, you can also download and upload
conditions. This provides a user-friendly way to check and maintain pricing conditions flexibly in a transaction.
 Note
The transaction code for calling the sales and distribution monitor is /SAPLOM/SDM. Note that to run the
SAP SCM Consulting Solutions, an /n must be placed in front of the actual transaction code. Alternatively,
you can also prefix /o to call the sales and distribution monitor in a new session. Therefore, if you want to
call the SDM in the current session, you need to enter /n/SAPLOM/SDM in the transaction field.
Sales and distribution monitor
Sales and distribution monitor

---

Selection Screen
The selection screen of the SDM is divided into the following tabs:
General
Sales Documents
Stock Transport Orders (STOs)
Deliveries
Billing Documents
Condition Records
Display
Note that, depending on the chosen selection or features, not all tabs are displayed on the General tab.
Related Information
Main Tab [page 4]
2.1
Main Tab
In the Selection and Features block, you define which documents (sales documents, stock transport orders,
deliveries, billing documents) are to be selected. You can also activate or deactivate functions such as the
condition record analysis or the calculation of the stock indicators (see the column Warehouse Stock Indicator).
Note that the stock indicators are only available if the corresponding Customizing has been maintained
(transaction /SAPLOM/SDM_CUST_SI). For more detailed information, see the section Warehouse Stock
Indicators [page 8]. Depending on the settings in this block, other tabs are displayed in which specific
setting options are available.
The General Selection Criteria block contains settings for the SDM functionality. You can use this to evaluate
all SD documents within a transaction. In this block, you define general selection criteria to define the relevant
work area. These general criteria refer to all SD document categories. This means to sales documents as
well as to stock transport orders, deliveries, and billing documents. Special selection criteria for the individual
document categories is stored on the corresponding tabs. Only the documents that meet the selection criteria
and do not have a deletion indicator are displayed on the results screen. In addition, the selection of the
corresponding document category must be activated in the first block [page 4].
The Display All Partners checkbox in the Partners block can be used to display all partners of the selected
documents. If it is not activated, only the following partners are displayed by default: for sales documents
- sold-to party, ship-to party, bill-to party, and payer; for deliveries - sold-to party and ship-to party; for
billing documents - sold-to party, ship-to party, bill-to party, and payer. If it is activated, all partners that are
Sales and distribution monitor
Selection Screen

---

maintained at header or item level of the selected documents are displayed. On the selection screen, you can
only use the standard partner functions to make selections.
In the third block, you can specify an overall profile. This standardizes the use of various comprehensive
functions (see Overall Profile). These are functions that can be used in many SCM CS Consulting Solutions. For
further settings for the comprehensive functions, see the individual tabs. However, if an overall profile is used,
these individual settings are overridden.
Layout sets allow users to define their own work areas – consisting of predefined variants and sort criteria (ALV
layouts). This makes it easier to maintain the sales data depending on the business scenario. For example, you
can display all orders that need to be delivered or settled. The layouts stored in the layout set are displayed on
the results screen of SDM and can be applied directly by double-clicking. The sample action profile /SAPLOM/
SDM_DEF is delivered with SDM in the standard system. This can be used, for example, for a jump to MD04. For
more information about maintaining and using the comprehensive functions, see the documentation below.
You can use the comprehensive functions Formulas and Alerts on the tabs for the individual SD document
categories.
Related Information
Documentation on the consulting solution comprehensive functions
2.2
Tabs for Individual SD Document Types
The tabs Sales Documents, Deliveries, Billing Documents, and Stock Transfers are only displayed if the selection
of the corresponding SD document category is selected on the Main tab. Here, you can specify selection
criteria that restrict the selection of the corresponding SD document category. You can also make further
entries for comprehensive functions. However, if you have selected an overall profile on the Main tab, these
entries are overwritten.
Related Information
Alerts
Formulas
2.2.1  "Sales Documents" Tab
On this tab, you can specify selection criteria that restrict the selection of sales documents. You can also
choose whether the open delivery quantity is to be calculated for sales documents (see the column Open
Delivery Quantity on the results screen) and whether data fields are to be determined from the schedule lines.
Sales and distribution monitor
Selection Screen

---

 Note
The entries in the block Comprehensive Functions are overridden if you have used an overall profile on the
tab General.
2.2.2  Stock Transfers (STOs) Tab
On this tab, you can specify selection criteria that restrict the selection of stock transport orders. In addition to
criteria for standard STO fields, the field Status (SDM) can be used in the block Item Data. The status is based
on the purchase order quantity and the quantity already delivered. A quantity is evaluated as delivered once
the corresponding delivery has been created. The posting of a goods issue is not relevant. It is also possible to
select whether the open delivery quantity is to be calculated for STOs (see column Open Delivery Quantity on
the result screen).
 Note
The entries in the block Comprehensive Functions are overridden if you have used an overall profile on the
tab General.
2.3
"Condition Records" Tab
The Condition Records tab contains the settings for the condition record analysis. It is mandatory to specify a
condition key. The condition key determines the displayed conditions and the key combinations offered. The
key combination is selected via a dialog box that appears as soon as the SDM has been executed. You can
analyze and edit conditions online. To do this, select the first radio button Analyze Online. The current date
is used as the default value for the validity. Depending on your use case, you can choose a different date.
As an option for online analysis, you can download and save the results as an Excel file. For this purpose, it
is necessary to define a storage location on the selection screen. In addition to online analysis, you can also
upload conditions from an Excel file. To do this, select the lower radio button Upload Conditions from Excel and
specify the storage location of the file to be analyzed.
2.4
"Display" Tab
On the results screen of the SDM, you have the option of filtering the displayed SD documents by sales
document category (VBTYP). If you do not want to use these predefined filters, you can hide them here. To do
this, simply remove the checkmarks from the corresponding document categories.
Sales and distribution monitor
Selection Screen

---

Result
After executing the SDM, the Document Overview tab of the results screen is displayed. If condition record
analysis is activated, the Prices tab page also appears.
3.1
Document Overview
The results screen for the document overview displays the selected documents and provides options for
further processing and analysis. The screen is subdivided into two areas:
Filter options and aggregation options can be applied by double-clicking on the left of the navigation area.
Filters for the various SD document categories and the corresponding lower-level sales document categories
are available as standard. If a layout set was specified on the selection screen, the layouts from the selected
layout set also appear here. These layouts are also assigned to the corresponding SD document category and
inserted in the filter tree under each of these layouts. For details on using the layout sets, see Layout Sets.
Aggregation provides predefined criteria for determining the net value of the selected documents. Options are
offered for aggregation by customer (sold-to party), sales document, sales organization, distribution channel,
and division. Defined aggregations can be reset via Undo Aggregation so that the values are displayed at single
item level again.
The work area contains the table with the selected SD documents. You can use the tabs to switch between the
categories. Various pushbuttons that trigger the corresponding functions are located above the results table
(see section ). In the results list, the selected SD documents are displayed at header, item, and, if applicable,
also at schedule line level by double-clicking.
The toolbar above the results table provides standard ALV functions as well as SDM-specific functions and
jumps. The standard ALV functions include sorting, searching, filtering, totaling, and exporting the results
list. The Graphic pushbutton provides a graphical display of the analysis list according to the aggregation (for
example, net value by sold-to party).
The SDM also offers the cross-monitor functions Action Flows, and Alerts and Formulas. For more information,
see the documentation below.
SDM-Specific Functions
Document Flow The Document Flow pushbutton displays the document flow of the selected item.
Incompletion Log Choosing the Inc. Log pushbutton displays the incompletion log for the entire document of
the selected item.
Sales and distribution monitor
Result

---

Related Information
Comprehensive Functions
Layout Sets
3.1.1  Warehouse Stock Indicators
The column Warehouse Stock Indicator in SDM provides an overview of the current stock situation regarding
the current stock situation in relation to the required quantities of the selected SD documents. Various options
are available for calculating these indicators. These are described in more detail in the following. To select one
of the methods, maintain the corresponding class name (for example, /SAPLOM/CL_SDM_STOCK_IND_001) in
SDM Customizing (transaction/SAPLOM/SDM_CUST > Warehouse Stock Indicator).
You can also use your own calculations of the warehouse stock indicator by implementing the interface /
SAPLOM/IF_SDM_STOCK_IND_CALC and entering the corresponding class name in SDM Customizing. In
principle, the SD document categories Orders, Deliveries, and Stock Transport Orders can be included in the
calculation.
/SAPLOM/CL_SDM_STOCK_IND_001
If you select the class /SAPLOM/CL_STOCK_IND_001, the indicators are determined as follows: The total of the
requirements of all selected documents is formed for each material/plant combination (required quantity) and
compared with the unrestricted-use stock from the MD04 list (available quantity).
Determination of available quantity:
The stock is read for the current date (today).
For MTS items, the available quantity is read from the MD04 list for the ordered material and the
supplying plant.
The relevant sales order stock is read for MTO items.
Determination of required quantity: To determine the required quantity, all displayed orders, deliveries, and
stock transport orders are taken into account. The required quantities of all these documents are totaled
for each material/plant combination. The following quantities are used for this:
Orders: Open quantity (SDM field)
Deliveries: Delivery quantity (LIPS-LFIMG)
Stock transfers: Open quantity (SDM field)
Determination of warehouse stock indicator: The available quantity is compared with the required quantity
for each material and plant combination. The indicator is determined as follows:
If available quantity is 0: Red indicator
If 0 < available quantity < required quantity: Yellow indicator
If available quantity >= required quantity: Green indicator
If problems arose during the determination, a gray indicator is displayed (not defined).
Sales and distribution monitor
Result

---

/SAPLOM/CL_SDM_STOCK_IND_003
When you select the class /SAPLOM/CL_STOCK_IND_003, the indicators are determined as follows: The
requirement of each individual document is compared with the unrestricted-use stock from the MD04 list
(available quantity). The following quantities are used as requirements:
Orders: Open quantity (SDM field)
Deliveries: Delivery quantity (LIPS-LFIMG)
Stock transfers: Open quantity (SDM field)
The available quantity (LABST) is determined for the current date (today) from the MD04 list for the material
ordered and supplying plant. For MTS items, the plant stock is read, for MTO items, the sales order stock is
read. The warehouse stock indicator is determined as follows:
If available quantity is 0: Red indicator
If 0 < available quantity < required quantity: Yellow indicator
If available quantity >= required quantity: Green indicator
If problems arose during the determination, a gray indicator is displayed (not defined).
3.1.2  Sales Documents
All available header and item data for sales documents is displayed in SDM. From a technical perspective, this
is all fields of VBAK (header data) and VBAP (item data). This also includes potential customer fields/Z fields of
the tables mentioned. Furthermore, selected status fields (VBUP) and partner fields (VBPA) as well as selected
material master data are displayed.
In addition to this standard data, the following SDM-specific fields are also available:
Data
No. SL. This key figure specifies how many schedule lines an item has.
MTO Disp. Req. CE Number of demand-covering elements in the customer stock segment for a sales
order. This key figure is maintained only for order items with MTO materials. Clicking on the field opens
a popup displaying information about the associated requirement coverage elements. This information
comes from the customer stock segment in the MD04 list. You can use a hotspot click to jump directly to
the requirement coverage element.
First and Last Delivery Date There can be multiple deliveries for one item. These two fields specify the
first and last delivery dates. The delivery data comes from the delivery header (table LIKP).
First and Last Confirmation Date For the schedule lines of a sales order, quantities can be confirmed on
multiple days. These two key figures specify the first and last confirmed days. The schedule lines of an
order are read for this.
First and Last Requested Date For the schedule lines of a sales order, quantities can be requested on
several days. These two key figures specify the first and last requested dates. The schedule line of an order
is read for this.
Sales and distribution monitor
Result

---

Latest Material Availability Date The latest material availability date from the corresponding schedule
lines (VBEP-MBDAT).
Last Goods Issue The date of the last goods issue that is read from the corresponding schedule lines
(VBEP-WADAT).
Quantity Delivered Delivery quantity of the item (VSMNG).
Open Delivery Quantity The difference between the order quantity (VBAP-KWMENG) and the quantity
already delivered.
Value of Open Quantity (Sales Price)/(Material Valuation Record) States the value of the open delivery
quantity. The value is based either on the sales price of the relevant item (net value, VBAP-NETWR) or the
material valuation record from the material master data. For example, for an order of 10 pieces of material
X at a net purchase order value of EUR 100 and with an open delivery quantity of 2 pieces, the value of the
open quantity (sales prices) would be EUR 100 / 10 pc. * 2 pc. = EUR 20.
Unrestricted-Use Stock Unrestricted-use stock (LABST) of the material ordered (VBAP-MATNR) at the
supplying plant (VBAP-WERKS).
Warehouse Stock Indicator As per the settings in Customizing /SAPLOM/SDM_CUST_SI, the available
quantity in warehouse stock is placed in this column (see Warehouse Stock Indicators [page 8]).
Functions
Edit Sales Texts
If an order is displayed in SDM, the text can be edited by right-clicking on the order and choosing
Edit Texts
<Text Type>
. In the lower area, a new window appears in which a text editor is integrated. The text can be
created/changed in this window. You choose the Save button in the upper ALV to save the text.
Follow-On Documents
Follow-on documents can be created for sales documents and deliveries using the Follow-On Document
pushbutton (via the results table). To do this, you must first select the desired rows in the table. Even if the data
is displayed at item level in the table, the follow-on document is always created for the entire document of the
selected item. After processing, the results table can be updated using the Refresh button so that the newly
created deliveries and billing documents are also displayed in the result list. This requires the newly created
deliveries to be in the work area defined on the selection screen.
After you choose the Follow-On Document pushbutton, the following functions are available for orders: Create
Delivery, Post Goods Issue, Create Billing Document and Delivery, Create Delivery, Goods Issue, and Billing.
Create Delivery If this function is selected, all items of the selected document are processed and a delivery is
created in the background. If possible, all items are delivered in full. Delivery splits are carried out according
to the general system settings. When processing is complete, a dialog box appears and says whether the
creation was successful. In addition, a log can be issued, displaying further information about the creation of
the delivery and possible error messages.
Post Goods Issue This function can only be executed for sales orders for which a delivery has already been
created. The system determines all subsequent deliveries of the selected orders and tries to post a goods issue
for all subsequent deliveries. Once the function has been executed, the system says whether the creation was
successful or not and provides any necessary additional information. You can use the Display Document Flow
function to display the goods issue.
Sales and distribution monitor
Result

---

Create Billing Document This function can only be executed for sales orders for which a delivery has already
been created. As with goods issues, the system first attempts to invoice the deliveries belonging to the order. If
an order does not have subsequent deliveries, it is billed directly. You can display the change log after executing
the function. In addition to information about successfully created billing documents, this contains information
about warnings and error messages.
Create Billing Document and Delivery This function executes all three functions one after the other, as
described. After you execute this function, the system displays the confirmations of the individual steps one
after the other.
Edit Documents
Sales orders can be processed directly in SDM if you use transaction /SAPLOM/SDM to call the program. Only
uncompleted documents can be edited (GBSTK not equal to 'C'). To edit a document, you can either change
individual cells or use mass processing. To do this, select the required items in the results table and choose
Enter + and double-click the column in which you want to edit the fields. If your selection contains fields
that can be edited, a dialog box appears in which you can enter the required new value. After you confirm your
entry, all editable fields of your selection are overwritten with the new value.
 Caution
You must choose Save to confirm the changes. Otherwise, they are discarded and not transferred to the
system.
The following fields can be edited at header level:
Requested delivery date (VDATU)
Purchase order number of customer (BSTNK)
SDM: Goods recipient (PA_WE)
SDM: Sold-to party (PA_AG)
Sales organization (VKORG)
Distribution channel (VTWEG)
Sales group (VKGRP)
Sales office (VKBUR)
Requested delivery date (VDATU)
Period for date (VPRGR)
Order date (BSTDK)
Purchase order type (BSARK)
Addition (BSTZD)
Your reference (IHREZ)
Name (BNAME)
Telephone ((TELF1)
Delivery block (LIFSK)
Billing block (FAKSK)
Order reason (AUGRU)
Complete delivery (AUTLF)
Quotation valid from (ANGDT)
Quotation valid to (BNDDT)
Sales and distribution monitor
Result

---

Start of validity (GUEBG)
End of validity (GUEEN)
Customer group 1 (KVGR1)
Customer group 2 (KVGR2)
Customer group 3 (KVGR3)
Customer group 4 (KVGR4)
Customer group 5 (KVGR5)
SD document category (VBTYP)
Document date (AUDAT)
Warranty (GWLDT)
Shipping condition (VSBED)
Description (KTEXT)
Number of dunning notices (MAHZA)
Last dunning notice (MAHDT)
Cost center (KOSTL)
Usage (ABRVW)
MRP for release types (ABDIS)
Billing company code (BUKRS_VF)
Deviating tax class (TAXK1)
Tax classif.2-Cust. (TAXK2)
Tax classif.3-Cust. (TAXK3)
Tax classif.4-Cust. (TAXK4)
Tax classif.5-Cust. (TAXK5)
Tax classif.6-Cust. (TAXK6)
Tax classif.7-Cust. (TAXK7)
Tax classif.8-Cust. (TAXK8)
Tax classif.9-Cust. (TAXK9)
Assignment (ZUONR)
Originating system (VBKLA)
Version (VSNMR_V)
The following fields can be edited at item level:
Cumulative order quantity in sales units (KWMENG)
Higher-level item (UEPOS)
Purchase order item (POSEX)
Alternative to item (GRPOS)
Batch (CHARG)
Delivery group (GRKOR)
Partial delivery at item level (KZTLF)
Storage location (LGORT)
Item category (PSTYV)
Description (ARKTX)
Sales and distribution monitor
Result

---

Material group 1 (MVGR1)
Material group 2 (MVGR2)
Material group 3 (MVGR3)
Material group 4 (MVGR4)
Material group 5 (MVGR5)
Product hierarchy (PRODH)
Material group (MATKL)
Sales unit (VRKME)
Numerator target -> stock (UMZIZ)
Denominator target -> stock (UMZIN)
Rounding qty del. (ABLFZ)
Absolute deviation (ABSFZ)
Deviation in percent (KBVER)
Deviation days (KEVER)
Quantity is fixed (FMENG)
Overdelivery tolerance (UEBTO)
Underdelivery tolerance (UNTTO)
Division (SPART)
Numerator (UMVKZ)
Denominator (UMVKN)
Gross weight (BRGEW)
Net weight (NTGEW)
Unit of weight (GEWEI)
Volume (VOLUM)
Unit of volume (VOLEH)
Supply priority (LPRIO)
Shipping point/receiving point (VSTEL)
Route (ROUTE)
Created by (ERNAM)
Material group (KONDM)
Valuation type (BWTAR)
Delivery date and quantity fixed (FIXMG)
Serial number (SERNR)
Results analysis key (ABGRS)
Requirement type (BEDAE)
Customer has not posted goods receipt (NACHL)
Transaction type (EXART)
Overhead key (ZSCHL_K)
Pricing procedure (KALSM_K)
Mat. freight grp (MFRGR)
Planning release regulation (PLAVO)
Sequence number (KANNR)
Sales and distribution monitor
Result

---

Pricing reference material (PMATN)
Logical system (LOGSYS_EXT)
Order probability (AWAHR)
Max. partial deliveries (ANTLF)
ICMS law (J_1BTAXLW1)
IPI law (J_1BTAXLW2)
Tax code (J_1BTXSDC)
Module (SKOPF)
Component quantity (KMPMG)
Document currency (WAERK)
Profit center (PRCTR)
Order (AUFNR)
Reference document (VGBEL)
Reference item (VGPOS)
Preceding document category (VGTYP)
Value contract number (WKTNR)
Value contract item (WKTPS)
EAN/UPC (EAN11)
Use UEPOS (UEPVW)
Usage (VKAUS)
Material received (MATWA)
Logical system (LOGSYS_EXT)
ISS law (J_1BTAXLW3)
COFINS law (J_1BTAXLW4)
PIS law (J_1BTAXLW5)
The following field is editable at schedule line level:
Order quantity (WMENG)
3.1.3  Stock Transport Orders
Data
All available header and item data for stock transport orders is displayed in SDM. From a technical perspective,
this is all fields of EKKO (header data) and EKPO (item data). This also includes potential customer fields/Z
fields of the tables mentioned. Selected material master data is also displayed.
In addition to this standard data, the following SDM-specific fields are also available:
First Delivery Date There can be multiple deliveries for one item. This field specifies the date of the
delivery that will be made first. The delivery data comes from the delivery schedule lines (table EKET).
Latest Material Availability Date The latest material availability date from the corresponding delivery
schedule lines (EKET).
Sales and distribution monitor
Result

---

Quantity Delivered Maximum quantity delivered from the delivery schedule lines (EKET-GLMNG)
Open Delivery Quantity The difference between the purchase order quantity (EKPO-MENGE) and the
quantity already delivered. For canceled purchase orders and purchase orders with the delivery completed
indicator, the open quantity 0 is always displayed.
Value of Open Quantity (Sales Price)/(Material Valuation Record) States the value of the open delivery
quantity. The value is based either on the sales price of the relevant item (net purchase order value in
purchase order currency, EKPO-NETWR) or the material valuation record from the material master data. For
example, for a purchase order of 10 pieces of material X at a net purchase order value of EUR 100 and with
an open delivery quantity of 2 pieces, the value of the open quantity (sales prices) would be EUR 100 / 10
pc. * 2 pc. = EUR 20.
Unrestricted-Use Stock Unrestricted-use stock (LABST) of the material ordered (EKPO-MATNR) at the
supplying plant (EKKO-RESWK).
Warehouse Stock Indicator As per the settings in Customizing /SAPLOM/SDM_CUST_SI, the available
quantity in warehouse stock is placed in this column (see Warehouse Stock Indicators [page 8]).
3.1.4  Deliveries
Data
All available header and item data for deliveries is displayed in SDM. From a technical perspective, this is all
fields of LIKP (header data) and LIPS (item data). Furthermore, selected status fields (VBUP) and partner
fields (VBPA) are selected. This also includes potential customer fields/Z fields of the tables mentioned.
Selected material master data is also displayed.
In addition to this standard data, the following SDM-specific fields are also available:
Unrestricted-Use Stock Unrestricted-use stock (LABST) of the material ordered (LIPS-MATNR) at the
supplying plant (LIPS-WERKS).
Warehouse Stock Indicator As per the settings in Customizing /SAPLOM/SDM_CUST_SI, the available
quantity in warehouse stock is placed in this column (green, yellow, red).
Functions
Create Follow-On Documents
After you choose the Follow-On Document pushbutton, the following functions are available for deliveries: Post
Goods Issue and Create Billing Document and Delivery.
Post Goods Issue An attempt is made to post goods issues for the entire deliveries of the selected items. Once
the function has been executed, the system says whether the creation was successful or not and provides any
necessary additional information. You can use the Display Document Flow function to display the goods issue.
Create Billing Document The deliveries of the selected items are billed. You can display the change log after
executing the function. In addition to information about successfully created billing documents, this contains
information about warnings and error messages.
Sales and distribution monitor
Result

---

Edit Documents
Follow-on documents can be created for sales documents and deliveries using the Follow-On Document
pushbutton (via the results table). To do this, you must first select the desired rows in the table. Even if the data
is displayed at item level in the table, the follow-on document is always created for the entire document of the
selected item. After processing, the results table can be updated using the Refresh button so that the newly
created deliveries and billing documents are also displayed in the result list. This requires the newly created
deliveries to be in the work area defined on the selection screen.
Outbound deliveries can be processed directly in SDM if you use transaction /SAPLOM/SDM to call the program.
Only uncompleted documents can be edited. To edit a document, you can either change individual cells or
use mass processing. To do this, select the required items in the results table and choose Enter + and
double-click the column in which you want to edit the fields. If your selection contains fields that can be
edited, a dialog box appears in which you can enter the required new value. After you confirm your entry, all
editable fields of your selection are overwritten with the new value.
 Caution
You must choose Save to confirm the changes. Otherwise, they are discarded and not transferred to the
system. Outbound deliveries can be changed if they are not completed (WBSTK not equal to C).
The following fields can be edited at header level:
Gross total weight (BTGEW)
Supply priority (LPRIO)
Route (ROUTE)
Incoterm 1 (INCO1)
Incoterm 2 (INCO2)
Unloading point (ABLAD)
The following fields can be edited at item level:
Net weight (NTGEW)
Gross weight (BRGEW)
3.1.5  Billing Documents
Data
All available header and item data for billing documents is displayed in SDM. From a technical perspective, this
is all fields of VBRK (header data) and VBRP (item data). Furthermore, selected status fields (VBUP) and partner
fields (VBPA) are selected. This also includes potential customer fields/Z fields of the tables mentioned.
Selected material master data is also displayed.
Sales and distribution monitor
Result

---

3.2
Prices
Prices Result Screen
The Prices results tab page is visible if you have selected Condition Record Analysis on the selection screen.
The conditions are displayed according to your selection.
The screen is subdivided into two areas:
Navigation area, consisting of the filter options for the condition records.
Work area, consisting of the condition records, editable fields, and processing status.
Filter Options
In the filter options, you can use predefined filter variants to restrict the condition records. You can use the
Remove Selection pushbutton to display all conditions again.
Update of Data
In the result overview, the following values can be changed directly:
Amount
Currency
Scale quantity
Validity
To do this, enter the required value in the corresponding field and save your entry. You then receive an
information text in the processing status.
Update of Pricing Conditions
Sales and distribution monitor
Result

---

The change is available in the standard SAP system.
Price Condition in SAP Standard VK13
The changes to the conditions are logged in the standard SAP transactions.
Change Documents for Conditions
Sales and distribution monitor
Result

---

Important Disclaimers and Legal Information
Hyperlinks
Some links are classified by an icon and/or a mouseover text. These links provide additional information.
About the icons:
Links with the icon
: You are entering a Web site that is not hosted by SAP. By using such links, you agree (unless expressly stated otherwise in your
agreements with SAP) to this:
The content of the linked-to site is not SAP documentation. You may not infer any product claims against SAP based on this information.
SAP does not agree or disagree with the content on the linked-to site, nor does SAP warrant the availability and correctness. SAP shall not be liable for any
damages caused by the use of such content unless damages have been caused by SAP's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Links with the icon
: You are leaving the documentation for that particular SAP product or service and are entering an SAP-hosted Web site. By using
such links, you agree that (unless expressly stated otherwise in your agreements with SAP) you may not infer any product claims against SAP based on this
information.
Videos Hosted on External Platforms
Some videos may point to third-party video hosting platforms. SAP cannot guarantee the future availability of videos stored on these platforms. Furthermore, any
advertisements or other content hosted on these platforms (for example, suggested videos or by navigating to other videos hosted on the same site), are not within
the control or responsibility of SAP.
Beta and Other Experimental Features
Experimental features are not part of the officially delivered scope that SAP guarantees for future releases. This means that experimental features may be changed by
SAP at any time for any reason without notice. Experimental features are not for productive use. You may not demonstrate, test, examine, evaluate or otherwise use
the experimental features in a live operating environment or with data that has not been sufficiently backed up.
The purpose of experimental features is to get feedback early on, allowing customers and partners to influence the future product accordingly. By providing your
feedback (e.g. in the SAP Community), you accept that intellectual property rights of the contributions or derivative works shall remain the exclusive property of SAP.
Example Code
Any software coding and/or code snippets are examples. They are not for productive use. The example code is only intended to better explain and visualize the syntax
and phrasing rules. SAP does not warrant the correctness and completeness of the example code. SAP shall not be liable for errors or damages caused by the use of
example code unless damages have been caused by SAP's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Bias-Free Language
SAP supports a culture of diversity and inclusion. Whenever possible, we use unbiased language in our documentation to refer to people of all cultures, ethnicities,
genders, and abilities.
Sales and distribution monitor
Important Disclaimers and Legal Information

---

www.sap.com/contactsap
© 2026 SAP SE or an SAP affiliate company. All rights reserved.
No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form
or for any purpose without the express permission of SAP SE or an SAP
affiliate company. The information contained herein may be changed
without prior notice.
Some software products marketed by SAP SE and its distributors
contain proprietary software components of other software vendors.
National product specifications may vary.
These materials are provided by SAP SE or an SAP affiliate company for
informational purposes only, without representation or warranty of any
kind, and SAP or its affiliated companies shall not be liable for errors or
omissions with respect to the materials. The only warranties for SAP or
SAP affiliate company products and services are those that are set forth
in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and
services, if any. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an
additional warranty.
SAP and other SAP products and services mentioned herein as well as
their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of SAP
SE (or an SAP affiliate company) in Germany and other countries. All
other product and service names mentioned are the trademarks of their
respective companies.
Please see https://www.sap.com/about/legal/trademark.html for
additional trademark information and notices.
