---
source: Sales Documents.txt
module: SAP SD
title: Sales Documents
---

# [Source: Sales Documents.txt | Page: 1 | Module: SAP SD]

Sales
SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition | 2608 Latest
information included in custom documentation may not reflect the arrangement of topics in SAP Help Portal, and may be missing
important aspects and/or correlations to other topics. For this reason, it is not for production use.

---

Sales Documents
The creation of sales documents usually represents the first stages of a business transaction in the sales process. You send sales
documents to customers to offer them products (goods or services) for a specific price, confirm the sale of these products, and so on. In
addition, you record related data for internal purposes.
Concepts
Sales Documents
A sales document represents a business transaction in the sales department. You, as an internal sales representative, create these
documents in the system to record information about the product (that is, material) that you sell to a specific customer, its price, related
conditions, and so on.
A product can be a material or immaterial good, or it can be a service.
Sales and Distribution (SD) Documents
You can use sales and distribution documents (or short SD documents) to manage and track sales and distribution activities in the
system. SD document is an umbrella term that comprises sales documents, billing process documents, and delivery documents, as
shown in the following graphic.
The graphic is interactive. Click highlighted areas for links to more information.
Please note that image maps are not interactive in PDF outputs.
Sales Document Categories
Sales documents are broken down into sales document categories. These categories roughly belong to different steps along the
sales process:
Process Step
Sales Document Categories
Presales processing
Sales inquiries
Sales quotations
Outline agreement processing
Sales contracts
Sales scheduling agreements

---

Process Step
Sales Document Categories
Order processing
Sales orders
After-sales processing
Sales orders without charge
Returns order
Credit memo requests
Debit memo requests
The following graphic shows these sales document categories that you can find in the system.
The graphic is interactive. Click highlighted areas for links to more information.
Please note that image maps are not interactive in PDF outputs.
Sales Document Types
Every sales document category is broken down into sales document types. When you create a sales document, you have to pick a
sales document type.
The sales document category and the sales document type determine what kind of sales document is created, which data you can
enter in a sales document, which checks the system runs automatically, or which subsequent processes the system triggers. For
example, when you create a sales order, the system determines prices for the products that you enter and checks their availability. For
sales orders without charge, prices are not relevant, so the system automatically applies a discount of 100%. The products in a sales
order also need to be delivered to your customer, so a delivery document would be a natural subsequent document. For a credit memo
request, you wouldn't need a delivery document, but a credit memo as part of the billing process.
For more information, see How Sales Documents are Controlled and Sales Document Types.
Process Flow
Example
When you create a sales order, you select a specific sales order type. For standard processes you create a standard order. When
you sell a product from your consignment stock, you create a consignment issue. When you want to supplement the consignment
stock, you create a consignment fill-up.

---

The sales documents that you create are individual documents, but they are also one of several sequential process steps. Furthermore,
you can create standalone sales documents, but you can also create a sales document with reference to another sales document, thus
making the document chain shorter or longer. When you create a sales document with reference to another sales document, you can
simply let the system copy data instead of having to enter it over and over again. The flow of data from one document to another also
makes it easier to identify issues and solve them: The process flow (a graphical overview in SAP Fiori apps) or document flow (a list
tree in classical applications) serves as a history that you can easily look up.
For each sales document, you can check the process flow in the system and learn more about its preceding documents (the documents
that come before a specific sales document in the process chain) and its subsequent documents (the documents that come after this
sales document in the process chain).
The following graphic shows how different sales documents can relate to other sales documents and how data subsequently flows into
delivery and billing documents:
Related Information
FAQ for Sales Documents
Output Management for Sales Documents and Billing Process Documents
Billing Process Documents
Delivery Management
Example
A customer calls you to ask about a specific product that you offer. You record this call by creating a sales inquiry. Later, the
customer asks you for a quote for that product. You create a sales quotation with reference to the sales inquiry. The next day, the
customer confirms that they would like to buy your product, so you create a sales order with reference to the sales quotation. You
then ship the product and bill the customer. After delivery, the customer lets you know that parts of the product were damaged during
shipping. You create a sales order without charge with reference to the sales order and ship the replacement. The sequence of all
these documents (the sales inquiry, the sales quotation, the sales order, the outbound delivery, the invoice, and the sales order
without charge) creates a process flow or document flow.

---

How Sales Documents Are Structured
Sales documents contain data on different levels: Header data is valid for the entire document, whereas item data is valid only for one
item. Each item represents a specific quantity of a specific product that is to be sold to a customer.
The following graphic shows the structure of a sales document. You can find the elements in dark blue in every sales document,
whereas the elements in light blue are used only in specific sales documents.
The graphic is interactive. Click highlighted areas for links to more information.
Related Information
Relationship Between Header and Items
Header Level
The header contains general data that is valid for the entire sales document (for example, information about the customer, or the net
value in the document currency). Header data also often acts as a template: That is, you enter specific data (such as the requested

---

delivery date or the Incoterms) only once in the header. When you create a sales document item or a schedule line, this data is used by
default.
Partners and Partner Addresses
Header partners and partner addresses exist in all sales documents.
Partners are business parties that are relevant for your sales process or your specific sales document. They can have various functions
depending on the role that they play in this process. If your customer wants you, for example, to deliver any goods to an address that
differs from the one for the sold-to party, you need two partner functions: a sold-to party and a ship-to party.
Each partner function can exist only once per header. You can, for example, only have one sold-to party or one payer. The only
exception are partner functions AA and AW that you can use as additional authorized partners in sales contracts. You can assign these
partner functions to several partners.
When you create a sales document, you first enter the sold-to party. This triggers the determination of specific master data (for
example, other partners, the payment terms, or the shipping conditions).
You can keep the data that the system determines or you can change it.
For more information about partners in general, see Partner Type and Partner Function.
For more information about how the system determines partners, see Working with Partner Determination (Example).
For information about how to use multiple addresses in sales documents, see Multiple Address Handling in SD Documents Using SAP
Business Partner.
Price Elements
Price elements exist in all sales documents. Note that in sales orders without charge, the system automatically applies a discount of
100%.
Price elements are used to calculate prices (for external use by customers or suppliers) and costs (for internal purposes, such as cost
accounting). Price elements are either price conditions or subtotals. Price conditions (with a specified condition type) represent a set of
circumstances that apply when a price is calculated. Subtotals sum up condition types that, for example, belong to the same category
(such as all surcharges).
When you create a sales document, the header price elements are determined automatically based on the pricing procedure that has
been determined for the sales document. You can also create additional price conditions and change or delete any manually created
header price conditions.
This means that what you see in the header corresponds to the following:
Price conditions that are related to condition types:
Automatically determined price conditions that are accumulated from the items
Manually created price conditions that are accumulated from the items
Manually created header price conditions. These price conditions are valid for multiple items by default (that is, they are
distributed to the relevant items).
Subtotals

---

Example
One of your customers orders 10 pieces of product 1 and 20 liters of product 2 on the last day of June. As a summer special, you
offer all regular customers a discount of 10% on all orders in June. In addition, you offer a discount of USD 10.00 for product 2 for
every customer who orders more than 15 liters. You create a sales order with this information.
You create item 10 for 10 pieces of product 1. The system determines the price conditions and the corresponding condition amount
or ratio per pricing unit (in this case, 1 piece). It then calculates the condition value for the 10 pieces that your customer ordered.
You create a header price condition for a discount of 10% for the summer special which is then valid for all items.
The following graphic shows the price elements for item 10:
You create item 20 for 20 liters of product 2. The system determines the price conditions and the corresponding condition amount or
ratio per pricing unit (in this case, 1 liter). It then calculates the condition value for the 20 liters that your customer ordered.
You create an item price condition for a discount of USD 10, because your customer ordered more than 15 liters.
The following graphic shows the price elements for item 20:
Note
The variable factors (that is, the customer, the product, the order quantity, the date) determine the final price that the customer gets.
Some of the related information, for example about the customer or the product, is stored in the system as master data. The master
data of the conditions is stored in a condition record.
A newly created sales order doesn't contain any price elements. The system creates price elements, both in the header and in the
item, when you create the first item.

---

For more information about pricing in general, see Pricing and Conditions.
Texts
You can use header texts in all sales documents.
You can use header texts to exchange information with others. You can, for example, create an internal note to share some background
information with your colleagues, add shipping instructions that you got from your customer, or write some billing information for your
customer. Some texts serve purely as a reference in the system, whereas other texts can be part of the sales document output.
The following graphic shows the header price elements:
Note
The fixed amount discount of USD 10 is applied to the condition value (that is, the value for 20 liters). This means that the sum of
discounts for the condition amount or ratio is the sum of all discounts applied to the condition value, divided by 20.

---

If your configuration expert has set up rules for text determination, sales documents can also contain texts that the system determines
automatically from the master data (for example, from a customer master record) or a preceding document. Your configuration expert
can also define which texts you can use or whether specific texts are mandatory.
Billing Plan
You can use billing plans in sales contracts and sales orders.
A billing plan is a schedule of individual billing plan dates (also known as billing plan items). The billing plan determines when a specific
amount or percentage rate will be billed. Billing plans are used in milestone billing, where the total value to be billed is spread across
predefined dates. Milestone billing is often used for big projects with products with a known net value.
You can define a header billing plan that is then valid for all items that are assigned to it. You can easily change the header billing plan
and copy these changes to all item billing plans. You cannot change the data that is copied to the assigned items unless you remove
the assignment.
You can also use a reference billing plan that acts as a template. If your configuration expert has assigned a reference billing plan to the
billing plan type that you use, the system automatically proposes the reference plan and redetermines the billing dates. The
redetermination is based on the date pattern from the reference billing plan and the current rule for the origin of the start date.
If you use advanced down payment processing (ADP), you can also use billing plans with down payment requests. In this case, the
requested down payment can be smaller than the total item value.
For more information about advanced down payment processing, see Advanced Down Payment Processing.
For more information, see Billing Plans.
Item Level
When you create an item, the system copies lots of data from the header. However, you can change this data and make it item-specific
(that is, different from the header). Each item contains data that is only relevant for a specific product that your customer orders (for
example, the product number, a ship-to party and address that is different from the general one, or price elements that are valid for only
one item).
For more information, see Relationship Between Header and Items.
For information about different items, see Item Categories.
Main Items and Subitems
In complex sales documents, you can use hierarchical structures to break down items into smaller, manageable parts. This makes it
easier to track and fulfill the order and provides a clear overview for yourself and your customer.
Main items (also referred to as higher-level items) represent the primary product that the customer buys.
Subitems are used for additional components, accessories, or services related to the main items. Each subitem is linked to the main
item in the sales document and can have its own quantity, pricing, and delivery details. This also allows for better pricing management,
 Note
Once ADP is enabled in your system, you cannot use template-like references for billing plans. This is true for all billing plans
(milestone billing and down payments for any item category).

---

as you can apply different prices and discounts to each item.
You can use these hierarchical structures, for example, with bills of material (BOMs) or free goods.
For example, if you sell coffee machines, you might want to sell bundles consisting of the machine itself, a pack of coffee filters, and a
bag of ground coffee. The coffee machine would be the main item, while the coffee filters and the ground coffee would be single
subitems.
For more information about BOMs, see Bills of Material in Sales Documents.
Partners and Partner Addresses
Item partners and partner addresses exist in all sales documents.
Partners are business parties that are relevant for your sales process or your specific sales document. They can have various functions
depending on the role that they play in this process.
Each partner function can exist only once per item. You can, for example, only have one ship-to party.
By default, the system derives item partners from the header information. These partners are copied to all items. If you want to use
another partner, you can change it in the respective item. The system marks item partners that are not derived from the document
header as item-specific partners.
For more information about partners in general, see Partner Type and Partner Function.
For more information about how the system determines partners, see Working with Partner Determination (Example).
For information about how to use multiple addresses in sales documents, see Multiple Address Handling in SD Documents Using SAP
Business Partner.
Price Elements
Price elements exist in all sales documents. Note that in sales orders without charge, the system automatically applies a discount of
100%.
Price elements are used to calculate prices (for external use by customers or suppliers) and costs (for internal purposes, such as cost
accounting). Price elements are either price conditions or subtotals. Price conditions (with a specified condition type) represent a set of
circumstances that apply when a price is calculated. Subtotals sum up condition types that, for example, belong to the same category
(such as all surcharges).
Example
Your customer wants you to deliver item 10 to the address of the header ship-to party. The system automatically uses this ship-to
party for all items, so the address for item 10 is already correct.
For item 20, the customer wants you to use the address of another ship-to party. You change the ship-to party of item 20 to an item-
specific ship-to party.
For item 30, the customer asks you to use an address that is not stored in the relevant master record, just for once. You change the
address of the ship-to party in item 30 and thus turn it into a document-specific ship-to party address.

---

When you create an item, the price elements are determined automatically based on the pricing procedure that has been determined
for the sales document. You can also create additional price conditions and change or delete existing ones.
For an example, see Price Elements.
For more information about pricing in general, see Pricing and Conditions.
Texts
You can use item texts in all sales documents.
You can use item texts to exchange information related to a specific product in a sales document with others. You can, for example,
create an internal note to share some background information with your colleagues, add shipping instructions that you got from your
customer, or write some billing information for your customer. Some texts serve purely as a reference in the system, whereas other texts
can be part of the sales document output.
If your configuration expert has set up rules for text determination, sales documents can also contain texts that the system determines
automatically from the master data (for example, from a customer master record) or a preceding document. Your configuration expert
can also define which texts you can use or whether specific texts are mandatory.
Billing Plan
You can use billing plans in sales contracts and sales orders.
An item billing plan is a schedule of individual billing plan dates (also known as billing plan items) for a single item in a sales document.
The billing plan determines when a specific amount or percentage rate will be billed. If the item references the header, the system
copies all data from the header. If you remove this reference, you can also create item-specific billing dates that deviate from the
header. These billing plans are not updated if you make any changes to the header billing plan.
During sales document processing, the system determines from the item category whether a billing plan is required. It also determines
the type of billing plan based on settings made in configuration.
You can also use a reference billing plan that acts as a template. If your configuration expert has assigned a reference billing plan to the
billing plan type that you use, the system automatically proposes the reference plan and redetermines the billing dates. The
redetermination is based on the date pattern from the reference billing plan and the current rule for the origin of the start date.
If you use advanced down payment processing (ADP), you can also use billing plans with down payment requests.
For more information about advanced down payment processing, see Advanced Down Payment Processing.
For more information, see Billing Plans.
Delivery Schedules
Delivery schedules exist only in sales scheduling agreements. They are sent by customers to release a certain quantity of one or more
products outlined in the sales scheduling agreement. Each delivery schedule is broken down into one or more schedule lines. For more
 Note
Once ADP is enabled in your system, you cannot use template-like references for billing plans. This is true for all billing plans
(milestone billing and down payments for any item category).

---

information, see Sales Scheduling Agreements.
Schedule Lines
Schedule lines exist in sales documents that are relevant for delivery (for example, sales orders) or sales documents that are not
relevant for delivery, but still need information about product availability and delivery times (for example, sales inquiries).
If an item is of a category that allows schedule lines, it is broken down into one or more schedule lines. Each schedule line contains
data that is relevant for the delivery of the product. For information about different schedule lines, see Schedule Line Categories.
Origin of Data in Sales Documents
Learn where the data in sales documents comes from.
When you create a sales document, the system can determine data from various sources or in various ways:
Data from Master Records
Other Data Determined by the System
Data from Preceding Documents
Data from Master Records
When you create a sales document, the system automatically copies data from the customer master records, product master records,
and customer material records (for example, the sold-to party, payment terms, shipping address, and product details). If needed, you
can still change this data in the sales document.
When you create a sales document, the system copies the following:
Data related to the sold-to party and other partners (for example, the ship-to party or the payer) from the customer master
records
Item data from the product (that is, material) master record
Other relevant data from customer material records
The system determines matching data based on the sales area, which is a combination of the sales organization, the distribution
channel, and the division.
The following graphic shows some of the data that is determined automatically for sales documents:
The customer master record feeds into business partners, pricing, tax determination, delivery scheduling, payment, output, and
texts. The product master records feeds into pricing, tax determination, weight and volume determination, availability check, delivery
scheduling, shipping data, and plants.
Example
When your customer orders 20 pieces of a specific product, but only 10 are in stock, your sales order contains one schedule line for
10 pieces with an earlier delivery date and one schedule line for 10 pieces with a later delivery date.

---

Data from Customer Master Records
When you create a sales document, the system copies, among others, the name of the sold-to party as well as agreements for
complete deliveries and order combinations from the customer master record of the business partner. If you need to store information
that differs from the customer master records, you can simply change this data in the sales document.
If the relevant rules for text determination are set up, the system also automatically adds texts from the customer master data to sales
documents.
Deviating Item and Header Data
Data in the sales document header is valid for all items. The system copies specific data from the customer master records into the
document header and then from the header to the items (for example, the payment terms, the Incoterms, the partner functions, and the
delivering plant). Again, if you need to store information in a specific item that differs from the header, you can simply change this data
in the item.
Data from Different Business Partners
Customer master records can contain multiple entries per partner function. You can, for example, define multiple ship-to parties for a
single sold-to party or define one partner for receiving invoices and another partner for paying invoices. When you create a sales
document, the system automatically copies data from the customer master record of the relevant partner into the sales document.
The following graphic shows an example in which the sold-to party, the ship-to party, and the payer of a customer all have different
master data. The payment terms are copied from the customer master record of the payer, while the destination address is copied from
the customer master record of the ship-to party.
Data related to single partner functions is copied from their master records.
Data from Product Master Records
The system copies data from the product master record of the product that an item contains to this specific item. This includes data
about weights, delivery priorities, or overdelivery and underdelivery rules. If you need to store different information in an item, you can
simply change this data in the item.
Data from Customer Material Records
If you have defined customer-specific information for your company's products in a customer material record, the system automatically
determines this when you create an item and add a product. You can, for example, define the product number and the customer's
description for the product as well as specific shipping data, such as delivery priority, and partial delivery specifications. This data has
priority over data in the customer master record and the product master record. If you need to store different information in an item, you
can simply change this data in the item.
You can also add the customer material to the item and let the system determine the regular product number.
 Note
If an item contains item-specific data, any later changes in the header are not copied to this item.
Example
The system determines payment terms ZB01 and copies them from the header to all items. For item 20, you change the payment
terms to ZB02. Later, you change the payment terms in the header to ZB03. This change is not copied to item 20. In addition, if you
change the Incoterms in the header this doesn't affect item 20 either.

---

How the System Determines the Plant in an Item
Information about default plants can be stored in the customer material record, in the customer master record and in the product master
record. When you create or update an item, the system determines the corresponding plant for the product in this item. To do so, it
searches through these sources in the following order:
1. Customer material record
2. Customer master record
3. Product master record
This means: The system first looks for a plant in the customer material record. If it finds a plant, it copies it into the item. If it doesn't find
a plant, it looks for a plant in the customer master record. If it finds a plant, it copies it into the item. If it doesn't find a plant, it looks for a
plant in the product master record. If it finds a plant, it copies it into the item. If it doesn't find a plant, the system displays an error
message.
Related Information
Sales Master Data Management
Customer and Business Partner
Manage Customer Materials
Key Concepts in Product Master
Other Data Determined by the System
Some data in sales documents depends on a combination of different aspects (such as a specific customer and a specific product),
which means that the system can't simply copy this data from a master record. Instead, the system has to determine the data to match
all aspects at the time of creating the sales document. The system determines, for example, the following data:
Prices, discounts, and surcharges
For a detailed explanation of how the systems calculates the net value of sales documents and sales documents items, see
Example of Pricing Process.
Data for delivery scheduling
Shipping point, plant, and storage location
Data from Preceding Documents
When you create a sales document with reference to a preceding document, the system copies the relevant data from the preceding
document.
 Note
If the system determines the plant from the customer material record or the customer master record, it uses the records for the ship-
to party. Keep this in mind in case the ship-to party is different from the sold-to party.
 Note
The data in the preceding document originates from the customer master record and the product master record. Any changes that
are made to the master data records after the preceding document is created are not updated in the sales document, as the system

---

Solution Orders as Preceding Documents
For sales orders, solution orders can also be a preceding document. The system generates these sales orders automatically based on
sales items in solution orders. The data is determined following the business logic. For more information, see Solution Order: Specifics
for Sales Orders.
How Sales Documents are Controlled
The sales document type, the item category, and the schedule line category determine how sales documents are controlled.
They influence what kind of sales document is created, which data you can enter in a sales document, which checks the system runs
automatically, or which subsequent processes the system triggers. The sales document type can, for example, determine whether a
credit check takes place for a specific document. The item category can, for example, specify whether an item is relevant for delivery or
billing. The schedule line category can, for example, control how MRP requirements and the availability check are carried out.
For more information, see:
Sales Document Types
Item Categories
Schedule Line Categories
Configuration
As a business process expert, you must make settings to define how sales documents behave in your system.
Sales Document Types
simply copies the data.
Example
Your sales inquiry contains item 10 for product PRO1 (Product 1). You change the following master data:
In the product master record, you change the product description for PRO1 from Product 1 to Product 2.
In the sales document, the product description is stored at item level.
In the customer master record, you change the payment terms from ZB01 to ZB03.
In the sales document , the payment terms are stored at header level.
The product description and the payment terms in the sales inquiry don't change.
You now create a sales quotation with reference to the sales inquiry and choose to copy the data from item 10. In addition, you
create item 20 without reference to a preceding document with the same product. This means that item 10 reads Product 1 in both
the sales inquiry and the sales quotation. In contrast, item 20 in the sales quotation reads Product 2 as the system pulls the
information from the product master record.
However, the system continues to propose the original payment terms ZB01 for both items. Because the payment terms are copied
from the header of the sales inquiry to the header of the sales quotation, the change in the customer master record has no effect on
it.

---

In your configuration environment, use the search function to open the following activity: Configure Sales Document Types.
First, you decide which sales document types are needed in your system. You can block all unnecessary sales document types so that
users cannot create sales documents of this type. In addition, you can define general settings (for example, whether a reference
document is mandatory when business users create a sales document), default values (such as the pricing date), default blocks, or
numbering details.
The following questions might help to decide which settings to make:
Should a user be able to create the sales document only with reference to a preceding document?
Should customer material records be taken into consideration?
Should the system propose a delivery date?
Should item divisions be copied from the product master record or, if a user enters a division in the header, should the header
division be used for all items?
From which number range should the document number for internal or external number assignment come?
Item Categories
In your configuration environment, use the search function to open the following activity: Configure Item Categories.
You decide whether rounding should be permitted for specific item categories. If you want to allow rounding, requested quantities in
sales documents are rounded based on the delivery unit (respectively the delivery unit and the minimum order quantity, if there is one).
The rounded quantities are then used in availability checks.
Then, use the search function to open the following activity: Assign Item Categories.
You define which item categories should be used for specific sales document types. You assign a default item category that the system
later determines in sales documents. If needed, you can assign additional item categories that users can choose from if they want to
change the default item category.
For a more flexible determination of item categories in specific sales documents, you can also set up business rules. For more
information, see Flexible Item Category Determination.
Schedule Line Categories
In your configuration environment, use the search function to open the following activity: Assign Schedule Line Categories.
You define which schedule line categories should be used for specific item categories. You assign a default schedule line category that
the system later determines in sales documents. If needed, you can assign additional schedule line categories that users can choose
from if they want to change the default schedule line category.
For more information about configuration environments, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
Sales Document Types
When you create a sales document, you must select a sales document type. Depending on where you work on a sales document, you
use the language-independent key found in the database or the language-dependent converted key found on UIs. As a key user or a
developer, you use, for example, the language-independent key in APIs based on OData V4 or SOAP, and the language-dependent key
in APIs based on OData V2 or in business add-ins (BAdIs).
The sales document types that are used most often include the following:

---

Process Step
Sales Document Category
Sales Document Type
Database Key (Language-
Independent) / Converted Key
(Language-Dependent)
Presales processing
Sales inquiry (A)
Inquiry
AF / IN
Sales quotation (B)
Quotation
AG / QT
Outline agreement processing
Sales contract (G)
Quantity contract
KM / CQ
Value contract
VC01 / VC01
Sales scheduling agreement (E)
Scheduling agreement with
releases
LZ / LZ
Scheduling agreement with
consignment
LK / LK
Order processing
Sales order (C)
Standard order
TA / OR
After-sales processing
Sales order without charge (I)
Delivery free of charge
CBFD / CBFD
Returns order (H)
Standard return
CBAR / CBAR
Credit memo request (K)
Credit memo request
G2 / CR
Invoice correction request
RK / RK
Debit memo request (L)
Debit memo request
L2 / DR
Invoice increase request
CBII / CBII
Item Categories
Item categories help to further narrow down how sales document items behave and thus meet different demands in the business
process.
The system uses item categories to process products in different ways: For example, in a sales order, both standard items and free-of-
charge items are relevant to delivery, but the system determines prices only for standard items. Text items need neither prices nor
deliveries. In a sales order with item category CBAO, the system automatically creates a billing plan.
Similarly, items without a delivery don't need a ship-to party and free-of-charge items don't need a bill-to party.
Determining the Item Category
The item category in a sales document depends on the sales document type and the product. Every product master record should
contain an item category group. For example, the item category group NORM is defined for standard products that are kept in stock,
SRVP is defined for services, NLAG is defined for non-stock materials, and VERP is defined for packaging.
The following graphic shows an example of how the system determines the item category. For a product with item category group
NORM, the system determines item category AGN for sales quotations and item category TAN for standard orders.
The graphic is explained in the accompanying text.
Determining the Item Category for Subitems

---

You can enter services and free goods as individual items or you can allocate them to other items. An item which is allocated to another
one is called a subitem. The system determines the item category for subitems in dependence to the higher-level item (that is, the item
that it is allocated to).
If a free-of-charge item is allocated to a standard item in a standard order (item category TAN), the system uses the item category
TANN for the subitem, and the subitem is processed as a free-of-charge item.
For information about subitems and their item categories when you use flexible substitution strategies based on the actual product
availability, see Alternative-Based Confirmation in Sales Orders.
Related Information
Product Master
Billing Plans
Flexible Item Category Determination
Schedule Line Categories
Sales document items that need information about product availability and deliveries are divided into one or more schedule lines. These
schedule lines differ from each other with respect to date and quantity.
Different control elements are also defined for schedule lines. For example, for some schedule lines, material requirements planning is
not carried out; for other schedule lines, it is carried out.
Depending on the schedule line category, the system determines, for example, the following:
Is a schedule line only necessary for information?
The schedule line in a sales inquiry, for example, serves no other purpose.
Should requirements be transferred and should an availability check be carried out?
This might be relevant, for example, for sales orders.
Should stocks be managed, and should goods issue be posted?
This might be relevant, for example, for sales orders.
Should goods receipt be posted?
This might be relevant for return orders.
Determining the Schedule Line Category
The schedule line category depends on the item category of the corresponding item and the material requirements planning (MRP) type
of the product. The MRP type of a product is specified in the product master record.
Schedule line categories are determined automatically based on the settings of your system configuration. When you enter another
schedule line category, the system checks whether this category is allowed.
Relationship Between Header and Items
 Remember

---

The system automatically copies some data that you enter in the sales document header to all items. As long as this data is identical on
both header and item level, any later changes in the header are also updated in the items.
The following graphic illustrates this logic with an example:
A sales document header contains general data that is valid for the entire document (for example, information about the customer,
the net value in the document currency, or price elements), whereas items contain data that is only relevant for a specific product
that your customer orders.
 Note
Note the following rules:
If you change the pricing date and the exchange rate in the header and items have already been billed, the system does not
copy changes to these items.
If you change the pricing date in the header and the items have not yet been billed, the system copies the exchange rate to
the items.
If you change the currency in the header, the system always copies the exchange rate to the items, regardless of whether
they have been billed.

---

Custom Adaptations for Sales Documents
Make custom adaptations to the sales process.
With the enhancements listed in the following table, you can customize and adapt specific aspects of sales document creation and
processing to better fulfill your business requirements.
Custom Adaptation Scenario
Supported In ...
Framework Used
Flexible Sales Document Numbering
All sales document categories
Configurable Parameters and Formulas
(CPF)
Flexible Proposal of Validity Dates
Sales document categories:
A (Sales inquiry)
B (Sales quotation)
G (Sales contract)
Configurable Parameters and Formulas
(CPF)
Flexible Proposal of Requested Delivery
Dates
Sales document categories:
B (Sales quotation)
C (Sales order)
I (Sales order without charge)
Configurable Parameters and Formulas
(CPF)
Flexible Proposal of Pricing Dates
Sales document categories:
B (Sales quotation)
C (Sales order)
I (Sales order without charge)
Configurable Parameters and Formulas
(CPF)
Flexible Item Category Determination
Sales document types:
AG / QT(Quotation)
TA / OR (Standard Order)
CBFD / CBFD (Delivery Free of Charge)
Custom Sales Order Types(only if your
configuration environment is based on SAP
Central Business Configuration )
Business Rule Framework plus (BRFplus)
With the enhancements listed in the following table, you can customize and adapt specific aspects of sales document processing using
SOAP services.
Custom Adaptation Scenario
Relevant SOAP Service
Framework Used
Flexible Determination of Internal Partner
Numbers
Sales Order/Customer Return - Create,
Update, Cancel (B2B)
Configurable Parameters and Formulas
(CPF)
Flexible Determination of Sales Area and
Sales Document Types
Sales Order/Customer Return - Create,
Update, Cancel (B2B)
Configurable Parameters and Formulas
(CPF)
Flexible Sales Document Numbering

---

When a new sales document is created, the system can evaluate specific sales document header fields to dynamically determine an
appropriate number range interval from which to draw the new document number.
Standard Sales Document Numbering
When documents (for example, sales orders or sales contracts) are created in Sales, the system assigns unique document numbers to
them by drawing consecutive numbers from predefined number range intervals of the number range object RV_BELEG. For newly
created sales documents of order type OR (standard order), the system by default draws the document numbers from number range
interval 01, which is defined as ranging from 0000000001 to 0049999999. (The leading zeroes express that the maximum technical
length of the number range is 10, but only the last 8 digits are in use).
If you implement flexible sales document numbering, you can assign additional number range intervals and, optionally, number range
prefixes to sales documents that fulfill specific criteria (for example, specific values for company code or sales type).
As a configuration expert, you can maintain number range intervals by performing the Define Number Ranges for Sales Documents
configuration activity. Find this activity by using the search function in your configuration environment. For more information, see
Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
Prefixes for Sales Document Numbering
When you use flexible sales document numbering, number range intervals can be combined with alphanumeric prefixes of up to five
characters length. For example, use of the prefix ABC in conjunction with an interval ranging from 0000001 to 9999999 could result in a
sales document number of ABC1234567. The following are the two main reasons why you may want to work with number range
prefixes:
The space of possible sales document numbers provided by purely numeric number ranges is insufficient for your business
requirements
Each prefix opens up a new subspace for number range intervals that enables the creation of entirely new, unique subranges of
sales document numbers. For example, if you create the prefix AB and define a number range interval 01 within this prefix, with
the same upper and lower limit as the standard numbering interval 01 of order type OR (standard order), you have effectively
doubled the quantity of numbers available for sales document numbering without creating a new interval.
You can do this for as many number range prefixes and number range intervals as required. Clearly, this mechanism greatly
increases the flexibility of number range assignment.
You want to categorize specific sales documents in a way that helps fulfill legal requirements and makes them instantly
recognizable.
For example, an international corporation could choose to use the prefix DE for all sales documents created by its German
branch, and the prefix FR for all sales documents created by its French branch.
 Note
In contrast to number range prefixes, which are transported automatically, number range intervals cannot be transported from the
system in which they were created to the production (P) system. Therefore, while you can transport number range prefixes from their
origin system to the P system, any number range intervals you have maintained for these prefixes in the origin system (as well as
any other number range intervals) must be reworked manually in the P system.
 Remember
Always release transports containing extensibility items (for example, custom fields to be used as parameters in flexible sales
document numbering routines) before releasing the standard configuration transports. This prevents errors and inconsistent
transports.

---

For more information about defining number range prefixes, see the configuration help of the Define Number Range Prefixes for SD
Documents configuration activity.
Applying Flexible Sales Document Numbering
If the standard, static sales document numbering described above cannot fulfill your business requirements, you can implement a
flexible form of sales document numbering. Flexible sales document numbering assigns newly created sales documents to number
range intervals (and, optionally, number range prefixes) based on the evaluation of specific sales document attributes (certain header
fields of the newly created sales document).
The following example illustrates a typical use case for flexible sales document numbering.
 Note
Any prefixes that you define must conform to the following format:
Alphanumeric characters only (A-Z, 0-9, no special characters)
Maximum length of five characters
The last character must be a letter (for example, 1A or 1234B)
You cannot assign P, S, PBD and TMP as prefixes because they are reserved for system use
The technical maximum length of a sales document number is 10 characters. When a prefix is used, this reduces the length of the
possible number range by the length of the prefix. For example, a standard sales document number could be 1234567890. If you
apply the number range prefix ABC, the format would change to something resembling ABC1234567. This leaves only 7 characters
for the purely numeric part of the document number, which is dictated solely by the number range interval.
Example
Consider a multinational corporation that consists of eight sales organizations, each based in a different country, including Germany
and Italy.
When a new sales document of type OR (standard order) is created by the German company, custom logic implemented by the
corporation tells the system to use the next available number in number range interval A01 within number range prefix DE. When,
on the other hand, an OR (standard order) is created by the Italian company, the custom logic tells the system to use the next
available number in number range interval B01 with number range prefix IT. If a company based in France later joins the
corporation, sales documents originating from this company could be assigned to the interval C01 within prefix FR. In this way, for
each sales document, a different number range interval and number range prefix can be determined and used for each company.
The following figure shows how the sales organization of the newly created sales document is used as a criterion to determine the
number range interval and number range prefix from which the sales document number is drawn.

---

The above example is a very simple use case for illustration purposes. When implementing flexible sales document numbering,
configuration experts can create as complex a set of conditions for determining the number range interval as required. Assignments can
be made freely based on combinations of values of certain sales document header fields.
In addition, custom fields that have been added to the sales document header through extensibility can also be evaluated to determine
a specific number range interval and prefix.
Restrictions
Note that flexible document numbering only functions with internal number range intervals that already exist in the system. The
assignment of sales documents to external number range intervals is not possible.
Also, flexible document numbering cannot be applied to any process that triggers early number assignment such as ARM (Advanced
Returns Management), for example.
Related Information
Implementing Flexible Sales Document Numbering
Implementing Flexible Sales Document Numbering
Using the Configurable Parameters and Formulas (CPF) framework, you as a configuration expert can define rules that the system uses
to determine number range intervals for the numbering of newly created sales documents. These number range intervals will then
replace the default number range interval for internal numbering of the sales document type. These rules enable a flexible allocation of
sales documents to number range intervals and, optionally, number range prefixes that is controlled by one or more header fields of the
sales document to be created.
The CPF implementation evaluates rules specified in a decision table within a CPF formula. In this context, a CPF formula comprises
the combination of relevant parameters and one decision table.
Configuration Overview
By mapping a formula ID to a routine number, then mapping the routine number to a sales document type, each sales document type
that requires flexible numbering can be assigned to a different set of numbering rules. You maintain these rules within the decision table
of the formula.
 Note
For more information about restrictions when using flexible document numbering in sales processes, refer to SAP Note 3083811
Example
The following figure shows an overview of how three different sales types could be mapped to three different routine numbers, which
in turn are mapped to three different enhancement IDs. In each case, as the enhancement ID you enter the formula ID of the formula
containing the target decision table. Doing so facilitates the intended mapping between a routine number and a specific set of
numbering rules within the decision table.

---

Assigning a routine number to a sales document type causes the associated formula's decision table to override the sales document
type's standard numbering procedure. The standard numbering procedure draws consecutive numbers from number range 01 for order
type OR (standard order).
The designated formula is called whenever a sales document of the sales document type that is mapped to the corresponding routine
number is created. In effect, each routine number represents a specific decision table in a specific formula.
Input Parameters and Result Parameters
The rules in the decision table determine the correct result parameters (number range interval and, optionally, the correct prefix for a
given sales document type) by evaluating whether specific sales document header fields (represented in the formula as input
parameters) satisfy conditional rules that you have specified within the rows of the decision table. The decision table can evaluate the
following sales document header fields:
Company code
Distribution channel
Division
Sales document type
Sales group
Sales office
Order reason
Sales organization
Sales and distribution (SD) document category
In the example above, the same sales organization 1000 is responsible for Germany, Austria and Switzerland, while a different
sales office is assigned to each of these countries. That means that country-specific prefixes can be used in the resulting sales
document number, for example.
There are no sales offices assigned to neither Italy nor France (‘blank/space’), which means that sales offices are ignored during the
determination of the number range interval.
As only the combination of all parameters needs to be unique, the same number range interval A01 can be used each time, unless
the same country-specific prefix is used more than once. This could be the case if there are two sales offices in Germany that should
each receive a separate number range interval, for example.
 Note
If necessary, the same routine number can be assigned to multiple sales document types.

---

Any custom field that has been added to the sales document header through the extensibility business context Sales: Sales
Document
Decision Table
You create your decision table by creating one table row per rule that you want the system to evaluate based on the parameter values.
Each row represents a numbering rule. Each rule is a conditional expression that specifies values for some or all of the input
parameters, as well as for the result parameter NUMBERRANGEINTERVAL and and NUMBERRANGEPREFIX.
Decision Table Logic
Through the input parameters, the system compares the header fields of the sales document to the values you have maintained in the
decision table. It processes the rules in the decision table sequentially from top to bottom. For each parameter, you can specify an
operator as follows:
Operator = (Equal to)
If this operator is set, the system considers the corresponding parameter as a hit if the parameter value provided by the sales
document field is equal to the value you have specified in the corresponding column of the decision table. If every parameter in
a row provides a hit, the rule represented by the row is applied and lead time in days, factory calendar rule, and processing
indicator for incoming requested delivery date are assigned according to how they are specified in that row in result
subparameters.
No Operator (Do not consider)
If the operator cell is left empty (‘blank/space’), the corresponding parameter is ignored during the evaluation of that row, that is,
the parameter cell is treated as a wildcard. This setting is useful when you want to treat a parameter for which ‘blank/space’ is a
valid value as a wildcard.
After you have entered the rows representing the rules that you want to evaluate, the system automatically orders them based on the
priority that you have assigned to each parameter in the previous step. To achieve the final order, the system sorts the rows as follows:
1. First, the rows are sorted according to the parameter with the highest priority (that is, the parameter in the left-most column).
Rows in which a specific value (as opposed to a wildcard) is filled for this parameter rise to the top.
2. After this initial sort, the same principle is applied for the parameter with the second highest priority (second column from the
left) to establish the relative order of the rows within the overarching order established by the previous sort.
3. This process is repeated for each subsequent parameter to establish the final order of the rows, which ultimately dictates the
sequence in which the system processes the rules that you have specified.
The system then sequentially processes the rules by comparing the supplied input parameters against the conditions defined in the
rules, starting with the first row and ending with the first hit. If there is no hit, processing ends at the last row without any rule being
applied.
All cells are evaluated by checking the column value against the corresponding parameter value. For each cell, a boolean result is
returned. If all cells in a row are evaluated as true, the evaluation stops and the system returns the result subparameter as specified for
the current row. Otherwise, processing continues with the next table row until either a matching set of conditions is found or the end of
the table is reached.
Example
You fill a row so that for any sales document of type OR (using operator =) created for sales organization 1000 (using operator =),
the system assigns number range interval A01 with prefix ABC.
The next row, however, assigns documents of sales type OR (operator =) of any sales organization (no operator, that is, wildcard,
and empty parameter cell) to number range interval B02 with no prefix.

---

Configuration Procedure
Perform the following steps to get your CPF implementation of flexible sales document numbering up and running.
1. (Optional) If you want to use prefixes, ensure that you have defined them in the Define Number Range Prefixes for SD
Documents configuration activity. After the prefixes are defined, you can refer to them in your decision table.
2. To create custom number range intervals that the system can assign dynamically, configuration experts must perform the
configuration activity Define Number Ranges for Sales Documents.
3. (Optional) If you want to include custom fields as additional formula parameters, you can enable these custom fields as
parameters in the Define Parameter Catalog for Flexible Sales Document Numbering configuration activity.
4. In the configuration activity Define Formulas for Flexible Sales Document Numbering, create a CPF formula (including a
decision table) that fulfills your business requirements. Save your formula and make a note of the formula ID.
5. Perform the configuration activity Define Custom Routines for Flexible Sales Document Numbering. Here, register a routine
number and assign it your formula by selecting the implementation type Configurable Parameters and Formulas (CPF) and
entering the formula ID as the enhancement ID. Your formula (including its decision table) is now mapped to the routine number.
6. Perform the configuration activity Assign Custom Routines to Sales Document Types. Choose the sales document type (for
example, OR (standard order)) for which you want to trigger the formula that you have created. Then, enter the routine number
that you registered in the previous step to assign the chosen sales document type to the target formula.
The third row assigns sales documents of any sales document type (no operator, empty parameter cell) of sales organization 2000
(using operator =) to number range interval C03 with number range prefix XYZ.
If no rule is satisfied and the end of the table is reached, the standard number range interval 01 for order type OR (standard order),
is used (without any prefix). In an actual decision table, these three rows would look as shown in the following table:
Input Parameters
Result Parameters
Operator
SALESDOCUMENTTYPE
Operator
SALESORGANIZATION
NUMBERRANGEINTERVAL
NUMBERRANGEPREFIX
OR
A01
ABC
OR
B02
C03
XYZ
 Tip
As a configuration expert, you can find all configuration activities mentioned below by using the search function in your configuration
environment. For more information, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition. For more detailed
information about each configuration activity, see the dedicated configuration help within each configuration activity.
 Tip
Developers can create custom fields in the Custom Fields app.
 Remember
Always release transports containing extensibility items, such as custom fields to be used as parameters in a CPF formula,
before releasing the standard configuration transports. This prevents errors and inconsistent transports.

---

If everything is configured correctly, when a sales document of the relevant sales type is created, the system now calls the assigned
CPF formula to determine the number range interval (and, if applicable, the prefix) from which the new sales document number is
drawn.
Related Information
Custom Fields App and Custom Logic App
Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition
Flexible Sales Document Numbering
Flexible Proposal of Requested Delivery Dates
You as a configuration expert can define rules for flexible proposal of requested delivery dates for sales quotations, sales orders, and
sales orders without charge. When a new sales quotation, sales order, or sales order without charge is created, the system can
evaluate specific sales document header fields to dynamically propose a requested delivery date.
This feature is available for the following sales document categories:
B (Sales quotation)
C (Sales order)
I (Sales order without charge)
Overview
In the standard system, when a sales document (for example, a sales quotation or a sales order) is created, the system can propose a
requested delivery date by adding lead days and non-working days to the document creation date. However, your business context may
require that the requested delivery dates are automatically proposed for documents that fulfill certain criteria (for example, a particular
sales organization). To achieve this, you can implement the flexible proposal of requested delivery dates by taking into account the
following configurations.
Lead Days
The lead days are used in the same way as in the standard proposal of requested delivery dates.
Calendar Rule
The calendar rule defines how the system determines the factory calendar. Each factory calendar can contain different non-working
days.
Processing Indicator
The processing indicator specifies whether the system should use the proposed requested delivery date when a different requested
delivery date is received via API. For example, you can set the system to use the proposed date when the received date is earlier.
Business Conditions
 Restriction
The formula can only function correctly if it refers to internal number range intervals that already exist in the system. Referencing
external number range intervals is not possible.

---

In line with your business requirements, you can create a set of conditions using the following header fields:
Company code
Distribution channel
Division
Sales document type
Sales group
Sales office
Sales organization
SD document category B, C, and I
Any custom field that has been added to the sales document header through extensibility (business context Sales: Sales
Document)
Example
The following example illustrates a use case for the flexible proposal of requested delivery dates.
Consider a multinational corporation that consists of two companies based in Germany and China. Each company created a new sales
document of type OR (standard order) on Wednesday, April 1, 2020. When the new standard order is created by the German company,
custom logic implemented by the corporation tells the system to use a lead time of three days and apply calendar rule DE, which
determines a factory calendar reflecting non-working days in Germany. When, on the other hand, a standard order is created by the
Chinese company, the custom logic tells the system to use a lead time of three days and apply calendar rule CN, which determines
another factory calendar reflecting non-working days in China.
Different requested delivery dates are proposed due to different non-working days determined by the calendar rules.
Document Creation Date
Criterion: Sales Organization
Assigned Lead Time and
Calendar Rule
Resulting Requested Delivery
Date
April 1, 2020
1010 (Germany)
Lead Time: 3 days
Calendar Rule: DE
April 6, 2020
April 1, 2020
1020 (China)
Lead Time: 3 days
Calendar Rule: CN
April 7, 2020
April 4, 2020 and April 5, 2020 are weekends. The system proposes April 6, 2020 as the requested delivery date for the standard order
created by the German company.
DE Factory Calendar - April
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Sunday
April 6, 2020, on the other hand, is a Chinese public holiday. The system proposes the next working day, April 7, 2020, as the requested
delivery date for the standard order created by the Chinese company.

---

CN Factory Calendar - April
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Sunday
Implementing Flexible Proposal of Requested Delivery Dates
Using the Configurable Parameters and Formulas (CPF) framework, you as a configuration expert can define rules that the system uses
to determine requested delivery dates for sales documents. These rules enable a flexible calculation of the document requested
delivery date based on the calendar rule, lead days, and processing indicator that are controlled by one or more header fields of the
document to be created.
The CPF implementation evaluates rules specified in a decision table within a CPF formula. In this context, a CPF formula comprises
the combination of relevant parameters and one decision table.
Configuration Overview
By mapping a formula ID to a routine number, then mapping the routine number to a sales document type, each sales document type
that requires the dynamic requested delivery dates can be assigned to a different set of calculation rules. You maintain these rules
within the decision table of the formula.
Input Parameters and Result Parameters
The rules in the decision table determine the result subparameters for a given sales document type by evaluating whether specific
document header fields (represented in the formula as input parameters) satisfy conditional rules that you have specified within the
rows of the decision table. The decision table can evaluate the following document header fields:
Company code
Distribution channel
 Note
In this topic, a document refers to a sales quotation, sales order, or sales order without charge.
Example
The following figure shows an overview of how different sales types could be mapped to different routine numbers, which in turn are
mapped to different enhancement IDs. In each case, as the enhancement ID you enter the formula ID of the formula containing the
target decision table. Doing so facilitates the intended mapping between a routine number and a specific set of rules within the
decision table.

---

Division
Sales document type
Sales group
Sales office
Sales organization
SD document category B, C, and I
Any custom field that has been added to the sales document header through extensibility (business context Sales: Sales
Document)
The result subparameters are the lead days, processing indicator, and calendar rule. For more information, see Flexible Proposal of
Requested Delivery Dates.
Decision Table
You create your decision table by creating one table row per rule that you want the system to evaluate based on the parameter values.
Each row represents a numbering rule. Each rule is a conditional expression that specifies values for some or all of the input
parameters, as well as for the result subparameters.
Decision Table Logic
Through the input parameters, the system compares the header fields of the sales document to the values you have maintained in the
decision table. It processes the rules in the decision table sequentially from top to bottom. For each parameter, you can specify an
operator as follows:
Operator = (Equal to)
If this operator is set, the system considers the corresponding parameter as a hit if the parameter value provided by the sales
document field is equal to the value you have specified in the corresponding column of the decision table. If every parameter in
a row provides a hit, the rule represented by the row is applied and lead time in days, factory calendar rule, and processing
indicator for incoming requested delivery date are assigned according to how they are specified in that row in result
subparameters.
No Operator (Do not consider)
If the operator cell is left empty (‘blank/space’), the corresponding parameter is ignored during the evaluation of that row, that is,
the parameter cell is treated as a wildcard. This setting is useful when you want to treat a parameter for which ‘blank/space’ is a
valid value as a wildcard.
After you have entered the rows representing the rules that you want to evaluate, the system automatically orders them based on the
priority that you have assigned to each parameter in the previous step. To achieve the final order, the system sorts the rows as follows:
1. First, the rows are sorted according to the parameter with the highest priority (that is, the parameter in the left-most column).
Rows in which a specific value (as opposed to a wildcard) is filled for this parameter rise to the top.
2. After this initial sort, the same principle is applied for the parameter with the second highest priority (second column from the
left) to establish the relative order of the rows within the overarching order established by the previous sort.
3. This process is repeated for each subsequent parameter to establish the final order of the rows, which ultimately dictates the
sequence in which the system processes the rules that you have specified.
The system then sequentially processes the rules by comparing the supplied input parameters against the conditions defined in the
rules, starting with the first row and ending with the first hit. If there is no hit, processing ends at the last row without any rule being
applied.

---

All cells are evaluated by checking the column value against the corresponding parameter value. For each cell, a boolean result is
returned. If all cells in a row are evaluated as true, the evaluation stops and the system returns the result subparameter as specified for
the current row. Otherwise, processing continues with the next table row until either a matching set of conditions is found or the end of
the table is reached.
Configuration Procedure
As a key user for configuration, perform the following steps to get your implementation of the flexible proposal of requested delivery
dates up and running.
1. Perform the configuration activity Define Rules to Determine Factory Calendar to define your custom calendar rules.
2. (Optional) If you want to include custom sales document header fields in your decision tables, perform the configuration activity
Define Parameter Catalog for Requested Delivery Date to create your custom parameters.
Example
You fill a row so that for any sales document of type OR (using operator =) created for sales organization 1000 (using operator =),
the system assigns 5 days as lead time with calendar rule X1.
The next row, however, assigns sales documents of type OR (operator =) of any sales organization (no operator, that is, wildcard,
and empty parameter cell) to 10 lead days with calendar rule Y2 and indicator A.
The third row assigns sales documents of any sales document type (no operator, empty parameter cell) of sales organization 2000
(using operator =) to 15 lead days with calendar rule Z3 and indicator B.
If no rule is satisfied and the end of the table is reached, the standard procedure for the proposal of requested delivery dates is
used. In an actual decision table, these three rows would look as shown in the following table:
Input Parameters
Result Subparameters
Operator
Sales Document
Type
Operator
Sales
Organization
Lead Days
Processing
Indicator
Calendar Rule
OR
X1
OR
A
Y2
B
Z3
 Note
To implement the flexible proposal of requested delivery dates, you must choose date type D for requested delivery date. You can
display and change this date type on the sales tab in the Change Sales Orders app.
 Tip
In your configuration environment, use the search function to open the following activities. For more information, see Configuration
Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
For more detailed information about each configuration activity, see the dedicated configuration help within each activity.
 Tip
Developers can create custom fields in the Custom Fields app.

---

3. Implement your logic by creating a formula in the Define Formulas for Requested Delivery Date configuration activity.
4. Perform the configuration activity Define Custom Routines for Requested Delivery Date in Sales Documents to choose your
implementation type and create a routine number. Then assign the routine number to your implementation by entering the
formula ID as the enhancement ID.
5. Perform the configuration activity Assign Custom Routines to Sales Document Types and enter the routine number to
specify which sales document type you want to map to your implementation.
If everything is configured correctly, when a sales document of the relevant sales document type is created, the system now calls the
implementation to propose the requested delivery date.
Related Information
Flexible Proposal of Requested Delivery Dates
Custom Fields App and Custom Logic App
Flexible Proposal of Validity Dates
You as a configuration expert can define rules for flexible proposal of valid-to dates for sales inquiries, sales quotations, and sales
contracts. When a new sales inquiry, sales quotation, or sales contract is created, the system can evaluate document header fields to
dynamically propose a valid-to date based on specific calendar and offset rules.
This feature is available for the following sales document categories:
A (Sales inquiry)
B (Sales quotation)
G (Sales contract)
Overview
In the standard system, when a sales inquiry, sales quotation, or sales contract is created, you need to manually specify a document
valid-to date. However, your business context may require that the valid-to dates are automatically proposed for documents that fulfill
certain criteria (for example, a particular sales organization). To achieve this, you can implement the flexible proposal of valid-to dates
by taking into account the following configurations.
Business Conditions
In line with your business requirements, you can create a set of conditions using the following document header fields:
Company code
Sales organization
Distribution channel
Division
 Remember
Always release transports containing extensibility items, such as custom fields to be used as parameters in a CPF formula,
before releasing the standard configuration transports. This prevents errors and inconsistent transports.

---

Sales document type
Sales group
Sales office
Sales and distribution (SD) document category
Custom fields that have been created through extensibility (business context Sales: Sales Document)
Calendar Rule
Calendar rules define how the system determines the factory calendar used to dynamically propose the valid-to date.
Absolute Offset
Absolute offset indicates the number of days (from 0 to 99) shifted forward from the document valid-from date.
Additional Relative Offset
Based on given valid-from date, calendar rule, and absolute offset, the system gets an initial valid-to date. Here you can choose how
the system processes the initial date to determine the final date. For example, you can choose the first day of the initially proposed
month, or the first working day in the initially proposed week as the final valid-to date.
Example
The following example illustrates a use case for the flexible proposal of document valid-to dates.
Example
Consider a multinational corporation that consists of three companies, each based in a different country, including Germany, China,
and France. Each company creates a new sales quotation whose valid-from date is Thursday, April 26, 2021.
The following figure shows how the sales organization is used as a criterion to determine the formula.
Document Valid-
from Date
Criterion: Sales
Organization
Factory Calendar
Rule
Absolute Offset
Additional Relative
Offset
Resulting Valid-to
Date
April 26, 2021
1010 (Germany)
DE
7 (working days)
Initially proposed
date
May 5, 2021
April 26, 2021
1020 (China)
CN
7 (working days)
Initially proposed
date
May 11, 2021
April 26, 2021
1030 (France)
<Blank>
7 (natural days)
Initially proposed
date
May 3, 2021
April 26, 2021
1040 (US)
<Blank>
7 (natural days)
Last day in the
initially proposed
month
May 31, 2021
When the sales quotation is created for sales organization 1010 by the German company, the custom logic implemented by the
corporation tells the system to use the valid-from date April 26 plus seven working days according to the Germany factory calendar
to propose an initial date. The system then uses the initial date as final valid-to date, which is May 5, 2021.
When the sales quotation is created for sales organization 1020 by the Chinese company, the custom logic tells the system to use
the valid-from date April 26 plus seven working days according to the Chinese factory calendar. As April 30 to May 4 are public

---

Constraints
Flexible proposal of valid-to dates does not apply to sales quotations that are created with reference via the Sales Quotation
(A2X) API.
When you create a sales quotation (without reference) via the Sales Quotation (A2X) API, the valid-to date specified in the API
takes priority over that determined through the CPF-based flexible proposal.
Implementing Flexible Proposal of Validity Dates
Using the Configurable Parameters and Formulas (CPF) framework, you as a configuration expert can define rules that the system uses
to determine valid-to dates for sales inquiries, sales quotations, and sales contracts. These rules enable a flexible calculation of the
document valid-to date based on the calendar and offset rules that are controlled by one or more header fields of the document to be
created.
The CPF implementation evaluates rules specified in a decision table within a CPF formula. In this context, a CPF formula comprises
the combination of relevant parameters and one decision table.
Configuration Overview
By mapping a formula ID to a routine number, then mapping the routine number to a sales document type, each sales document type
that requires the dynamic valid-to dates can be assigned to a different set of calculation rules. You maintain these rules within the
decision table of the formula.
The following figure shows an overview of how two different sales document types could be mapped to two different routine numbers,
which in turn are mapped to two different enhancement IDs. In each case, as the enhancement ID you enter the formula ID of the
formula containing the target decision table. Doing so facilitates the intended mapping between a routine number and a specific set of
rules within the decision table.
holidays in China, the system ignores them when calculating working days and thus proposes May 11, 2021 as the valid-to date.
When the sales quotation is created for sales organization 1030 by the French company, the custom logic tells the system to use
valid-from date April 26 plus seven natural days, as the factory calendar rule is not specified. Therefore, the final valid-to date is May
3, 2021, seven days after April 26.
When the sales quotation is created for sales organization 1040 by the US company, the custom logic tells the system to use valid-
from date April 26 plus seven natural days to propose an initial date, which is May 3, 2021. By taking into account the additional
relative offset (last day in the initially proposed month), the system proposes the final valid-to date as May 31, 2021.
 Note
In this topic, a document refers to a sales inquiry or sales quotation.

---

Input Parameters
The rules in the decision table determine the calendar rule, absolute offset, and additional relative offset for a given sales document
type by evaluating whether specific document header fields (represented in the formula as input parameters) satisfy conditional rules
that you have specified within the rows of the decision table. The decision table can evaluate the following document header fields:
Company code
Sales organization
Distribution channel
Division
Sales document type
Sales group
Sales office
Sales and distribution (SD) document category
Custom fields that have been created through extensibility (business context Sales: Sales Document)
Decision Table Logic
You create your decision table by creating one table row per rule that you want the system to evaluate based on the parameter values.
Each row represents a rule that the system uses to propose document valid-to dates. Each rule is a conditional expression that
specifies values for some or all of the input parameters, as well as for the result parameter VALID_TO_DATE.
Through the input parameters, the system compares the header fields of the document that is being created to the values you have
maintained in the decision table. It processes the rules in the decision table sequentially from top to bottom. For each parameter, you
can specify an operator as follows:
Operator = (Equal to)
If this operator is set, the system considers the corresponding parameter as a hit if the parameter value provided by the sales
document field is equal to the value you have specified in the corresponding column of the decision table. If every parameter in
a row provides a hit, the rule represented by the row is applied and the absolute offset, factory calendar rule, and additional
relative offset are assigned according to how they are specified in that row in result subparameters.
No Operator (Do not consider)
If the operator cell is left empty ("blank/space"), the corresponding parameter is ignored during the evaluation of that row, that is,
the parameter cell is treated as a wildcard. This setting is useful when you want to treat a parameter for which "blank/space" is a
valid value as a wildcard.
After you have entered the rows, the system automatically orders them based on the priority that you have assigned to each parameter
in the previous step. To achieve the final order, the system sorts the rows as follows:
1. First, the rows are sorted according to the parameter with the highest priority (that is, the parameter in the left-most column).
Rows in which a specific value (as opposed to a wildcard) is filled for this parameter rise to the top.
2. After this initial sort, the same principle is applied for the parameter with the second highest priority (second column from the
left) to establish the relative order of the rows within the overarching order established by the previous sort.
 Note
Document categories A (Inquiry) and B (Quotation) are supported.

---

3. This process is repeated for each subsequent parameter to establish the final order of the rows, which ultimately dictates the
sequence in which the system processes the rules that you have specified.
The system then sequentially processes the rules by comparing the supplied input parameters against the conditions defined in the
rules, starting with the first row and ending with the first hit. If there is no hit, processing ends at the last row without any rule being
applied.
All cells are evaluated by checking the column value against the corresponding parameter value. For each cell, a boolean result is
returned. If all cells in a row are evaluated as true, the evaluation stops and the system returns the result subparameter as specified for
the current row. Otherwise, processing continues with the next table row until either a matching set of conditions is found or the end of
the table is reached.
Configuration Procedure
Perform the following steps to get your implementation of the flexible proposal of valid-to dates up and running.
1. Perform the configuration activity Define Rules to Determine Factory Calendar to define your custom calendar rules.
2. (Optional) If you want to include custom document header fields in your decision tables, perform the configuration activity
Define Parameter Catalog for Validity Dates to create your custom parameters.
Example
You fill a row so that for any sales document of type IN (using operator =) created for sales organization 1000 (using operator =), the
system assigns the first row of result parameters.
The next row, however, assigns sales documents of type QT (operator =) of any sales organization to the second row of result
parameters.
The third row assigns any sales inquiry or quotation type (no operator for sales document type, empty parameter cell) of sales
organization 2000 (using operator =) to the third row of parameters.
If no rule is satisfied and the end of the table is reached, the system does not propose a valid-to date and you can manually specify
the date in the document.
In an actual decision table, these three rows would look as shown in the following table:
Input Parameters
Result Parameters
Operator
Sales Document
Type
Operator
Sales
Organization
Absolute Offset
Factory Calendar
Rule
Additional
Relative Offset
IN
DE
A
QT
CN
A
FR
B
 Tip
In your configuration environment, use the search function to open the following activities. For more information, see Configuration
Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
For more detailed information about each configuration activity, see the dedicated configuration help within each activity.

---

3. Implement your logic by creating a formula in the Define Formulas for Validity Dates configuration activity.
4. Perform the configuration activity Define Custom Routines for Validity Dates of Sales Documents to create a routine
number. Then assign the routine number to your implementation by entering the formula ID as the enhancement ID.
5. Perform the configuration activity Assign Custom Routines to Sales Document Types and enter the routine number to
specify which sales document type you want to map to your implementation.
If everything is configured correctly, when a sales inquiry or sales quotation of the specified type is created, the system now calls the
implementation to propose the document valid-to date.
Related Information
Custom Fields App and Custom Logic App
Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition
Flexible Proposal of Pricing Dates
You as a configuration expert can define rules for flexible proposal of pricing dates for sales quotations, sales orders, and sales orders
without charge. When a sales quotation, sales order, or sales order without charge is created or changed, the system can evaluate
specific sales document header fields to dynamically propose an appropriate pricing date.
This feature is available for the following sales document categories:
B (Sales quotation)
C (Sales order)
I (Sales order without charge)
Overview
When a sales document (for example, a sales quotation or a sales order) is created or changed in Sales, the system can propose a
pricing date according to specific header information of the document, for example, the valid-from date or requested delivery date.
However, your business context may require that the pricing dates are automatically proposed for documents that fulfill certain criteria
(for example, a particular sales organization). To achieve this, you can implement the flexible proposal of pricing dates by taking into
account the following configurations.
Factory Calendar Rule
It specifies factory calendar sources and their priorities.
Baseline Date
 Tip
Developers can create custom fields in the Custom Fields app.
 Remember
Always release transports containing extensibility items, such as custom fields to be used as parameters in a CPF formula,
before releasing the standard configuration transports. This prevents errors and inconsistent transports.

---

It indicates a reference point for the flexible proposal of pricing date. You can choose a date from the document as the baseline date, for
example, the date of today, requested delivery date, valid-from date, and document creation date.
Absolute Offset Sign
It indicates the action to add or subtract the absolute offset from the baseline date.
Absolute Offset
It indicates the number of days (from 0 to 99) shifted from the baseline date.
Additional Relative Offset
Based on the four values above, the system gets an initial date. Here you can choose how the system processes the initial date to
determine the final pricing date. For example, you can choose the first day of the initially proposed month, or the first working day in the
initially proposed week as the final pricing date.
Processing Indicator
If you have a pricing date that comes in via API, you choose a value here to control whether the system uses the pricing date that
comes in via API or overwrites it with the flexibly proposed pricing date.
Business Conditions
In line with your business requirements, you can create a set of conditions using the following header fields:
Company code
Distribution channel
Division
Sales document type
Sales group
Sales organization
Sales office
SD document category
Any custom field that has been added to the sales document header through extensibility (business context Sales: Sales
Document)
Example
The following example illustrates a use case for the flexible proposal of pricing dates.
Consider a multinational corporation that consists of three companies, each based in a different country, including Germany, China, and
France. Each company creates a new sales document of type OR (standard order) on Thursday, April 26, 2021.
The following figure shows how the sales organization of the newly created sales order is used as a criterion to determine the formula
which the proposed pricing date is based on.
Document
Creation
Criterion:
Sales
Baseline
Date
Factory
Calendar
Absolute
Offset Sign
Absolute
Offset
Additional
Relative
Processing
Indicator
Resulting
Pricing Date

---

Date
Organization
Rule
Offset
April 26,
(Germany)
Document
creation date
DE
7 (working
days)
Initially
proposed
date
The system
overwrites
the pricing
date that
comes in
with the
flexibly
proposed
pricing date.
May 5, 2021
April 26,
1020 (China)
Document
creation date
CN
7 (working
days)
Initially
proposed
date
The system
overwrites
the pricing
date that
comes in
with the
flexibly
proposed
pricing date.
May 11,
April 26,
(France)
Document
creation date
<Blank>
7 (natural
days)
Initially
proposed
date
The system
overwrites
the pricing
date that
comes in
with the
flexibly
proposed
pricing date.
May 3, 2021
When the new standard order is created by the German company, custom logic implemented by the corporation tells the system to use
the document creation date April 26 as baseline date and plus seven working days according to the Germany factory calendar to
propose an initial date. The system then uses the initial date as final pricing date, which is May 5, 2021.
When a standard order is created by the Chinese company, the custom logic tells the system to use the document creation date as
baseline date and plus seven working days according to the Chinese factory calendar. As the days from April 30 to May 4 are non-
working days (public holidays) in China, the system ignores them when calculating working days and thus proposes May 11, 2021 as
the pricing date.
When a standard order is created by the French company, the custom logic tells the system to use the document creation date as
baseline date and plus seven natural days, as the factory calendar rule is not specified. Therefore, the final pricing date is May 3, 2021,
seven days after April 26.
Implementing Flexible Proposal of Pricing Dates
Using the Configurable Parameters and Formulas (CPF) framework, you as a configuration expert can define rules that the system uses
to determine pricing dates for sales documents. These rules enable a flexible calculation of the document pricing date based on the
calendar, offset rules, and processing indicator that are controlled by one or more header fields of the document to be created.
The CPF implementation evaluates rules specified in a decision table within a CPF formula. In this context, a CPF formula comprises
the combination of relevant parameters and one decision table.
 Note

---

Configuration Overview
By mapping a formula ID to a routine number, then mapping the routine number to a sales document type, each sales document type
that requires the dynamic pricing dates can be assigned to a different set of calculation rules. You maintain these rules within the
decision table of the formula.
Input Parameters and Result Parameters
The rules in the decision table determine the result subparamters for a given sales document type by evaluating whether specific
document header fields (represented in the formula as input parameters) satisfy conditional rules that you have specified within the
rows of the decision table. The decision table can evaluate the following document header fields:
Company code
Distribution channel
Division
Sales document type
Sales group
Sales office
Sales organization
SD document category
Any custom field that has been added to the sales document header through extensibility (business context Sales: Sales
Document)
The following are the result subparameters:
Factory calendar rule
Baseline date
In this topic, a document refers to a sales quotation, sales order, or sales order without charge.
Example
The following figure shows an overview of how different sales types could be mapped to different routine numbers, which in turn are
mapped to different enhancement IDs. In each case, as the enhancement ID you enter the formula ID of the formula containing the
target decision table. Doing so facilitates the intended mapping between a routine number and a specific set of numbering rules
within the decision table.

---

Absolute offset sign
Absolute offset
Additional relative offset
Processing indicator
For more information about these result subparameters, see Flexible Proposal of Pricing Dates.
Decision Table
You create your decision table by creating one table row per rule that you want the system to evaluate based on the parameter values.
Each row represents a numbering rule. Each rule is a conditional expression that specifies values for some or all of the input
parameters, as well as for the result subparameters.
Decision Table Logic
Through the input parameters, the system compares the header fields of the sales document to the values you have maintained in the
decision table. It processes the rules in the decision table sequentially from top to bottom. For each parameter, you can specify an
operator as follows:
Operator = (Equal to)
If this operator is set, the system considers the corresponding parameter as a hit if the parameter value provided by the sales
document field is equal to the value you have specified in the corresponding column of the decision table. If every parameter in
a row provides a hit, the rule represented by the row is applied and lead time in days, factory calendar rule, and processing
indicator for incoming requested delivery date are assigned according to how they are specified in that row in result
subparameters.
No Operator (Do not consider)
If the operator cell is left empty (‘blank/space’), the corresponding parameter is ignored during the evaluation of that row, that is,
the parameter cell is treated as a wildcard. This setting is useful when you want to treat a parameter for which ‘blank/space’ is a
valid value as a wildcard.
After you have entered the rows representing the rules that you want to evaluate, the system automatically orders them based on the
priority that you have assigned to each parameter in the previous step. To achieve the final order, the system sorts the rows as follows:
1. First, the rows are sorted according to the parameter with the highest priority (that is, the parameter in the left-most column).
Rows in which a specific value (as opposed to a wildcard) is filled for this parameter rise to the top.
2. After this initial sort, the same principle is applied for the parameter with the second highest priority (second column from the
left) to establish the relative order of the rows within the overarching order established by the previous sort.
3. This process is repeated for each subsequent parameter to establish the final order of the rows, which ultimately dictates the
sequence in which the system processes the rules that you have specified.
The system then sequentially processes the rules by comparing the supplied input parameters against the conditions defined in the
rules, starting with the first row and ending with the first hit. If there is no hit, processing ends at the last row without any rule being
applied.
All cells are evaluated by checking the column value against the corresponding parameter value. For each cell, a boolean result is
returned. If all cells in a row are evaluated as true, the evaluation stops and the system returns the result subparameter as specified for
the current row. Otherwise, processing continues with the next table row until either a matching set of conditions is found or the end of
the table is reached.

---

Configuration Procedure
As a key user for configuration, perform the following steps to get your implementation of the flexible proposal of requested delivery
dates up and running.
1. Perform the configuration activity Define Rules to Determine Factory Calendar to define your custom calendar rules.
2. (Optional) If you want to include custom sales document header fields in your decision tables, perform the configuration activity
Define Parameter Catalog for Pricing Date to create your custom parameters.
3. Implement your logic by creating a formula in the Define Formulas for Pricing Date configuration activity.
4. Perform the configuration activity Define Custom Routines for Pricing Date in Sales Documents to choose your
implementation type and create a routine number. Then assign the routine number to your implementation by entering the
Example
You fill a row so that for any sales document of type OR (using operator =) created for sales organization 1000 (using operator =),
the system assigns the first row of result parameters.
The next row, however, assigns sales documents of type OR (operator =) of any sales organization to the second row of result
parameters.
The third row assigns sales documents of any sales document type (no operator, empty parameter cell) of sales organization 2000
(using operator =) to the third row of parameters.
If no rule is satisfied and the end of the table is reached, the standard procedure for the proposal of pricing dates is used. In an
actual decision table, these three rows would look as shown in the following table:
Input Parameters
Result Subparameters
Operator
Sales
Document
Type
Operator
Sales
Organization
Baseline
Date
Absolute
Offset
Sign
Absolute
Offset
Factory
Calendar
Rule
Additional
Relative
Offset
Processing
Indicator
OR
A
DE
A
A
OR
A
CN
A
A
A
FR
B
A
 Tip
In your configuration environment, use the search function to open the following activities. For more information, see Configuration
Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
For more detailed information about each configuration activity, see the dedicated configuration help within each activity.
 Tip
Developers can create custom fields in the Custom Fields app.
 Remember
Always release transports containing extensibility items, such as custom fields to be used as parameters in a CPF formula,
before releasing the standard configuration transports. This prevents errors and inconsistent transports.

---

formula ID as the enhancement ID.
5. Perform the configuration activity Assign Custom Routines to Sales Document Types and enter the routine number to
specify which sales document type you want to map to your implementation.
Related Information
Flexible Proposal of Pricing Dates
Custom Fields App and Custom Logic App
Flexible Determination of Internal Partner Numbers
When an order request message is processed, the system can evaluate specific fields in the inbound EDI message to dynamically
determine the internal partner number for the sales order or returns order to be updated or created.
In SOAP-to-SOAP scenarios, the customer uses a SOAP service to send outbound messages that contain order data. Using the SOAP
service Sales Order/Customer Return - Create, Update, Cancel (B2B), your system receives inbound messages containing
corresponding order data and creates, updates, or cancels sales orders or returns orders. However, in each customer's external
system, several partners with external numbers might exist. The customer does not necessarily send the partner numbers that you
internally use in your system. In this case, you must convert the external number belonging to a partner into an internal number.
Through the procedures described below, your system can determine the internal partner numbers for the following if the customer has
specified the corresponding partner functions in the outbound message:
Sold-to party
Bill-to party
Ship-to party
Payer
Standard Conversion from External to Internal Partner Numbers
You can map the external number belonging to a partner with an internal number. The following example illustrates a use case and the
required mapping for the static conversion of partner numbers.
You, as a key user for configuration, can define such conversion by performing the Convert External to Internal Partner
Numbers configuration activity. In your configuration environment, you can use the search function to open this activity. For more
information, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
Example
Customer ABC uses 01 and 02 to represent the sold-to party and bill-to party in their own system. However, you use 10100080 to
identify the sold-to party and 10100011 to identify the bill-to party for customer ABC in your own system.
The following mapping is required.
Customer
Partner Function
External Partner
Internal Partner
ABC
Sold-to Party
ABC
Bill-to Party

---

Flexible Determination of Internal Partner Numbers
Your business requirements may dictate that the internal partner number must be determined according to certain attributes that reflect
the wider business context. If the standard, static conversion of partner number described above can’t fulfill your business
requirements, you can implement a flexible form of determination procedure. The flexible procedure determines the internal partner
number based on the evaluation of specific data in the inbound message received by the Sales Order/Customer Return - Create,
Update, Cancel (B2B) service.
The following examples illustrate the use cases for the flexible determination of internal partner numbers:
The above examples are simple use cases for illustration purposes. When implementing the flexible determination of internal partner
number, configuration experts can create as complex a set of conditions as required.
Assignments can be made freely on combinations of values of the customer ID and the following fields in the inbound message:
Buyer's System ID
Example
Your SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition system is integrated with SAP Business Network and creates, updates, or cancels
sales orders based on purchase orders generated or updated in SAP Business Network.
The purchase order is sent from SAP Business Network in which your customer's system is identified as AN00001.
The customer specifies the partner functions sold-to party and bill-to party in the outbound message.
In your system, you use 10100080 to represent the sold-to party and 10100011 to represent the bill-to party for this
customer.
The following mapping is required:
Buyer System
Partner Function
Internal Partner
AN00001
Sold-to Party
AN00001
Bill-to Party
Example
Your SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition system is integrated with an external SAP system. The customer uses a SOAP
service to send purchase order information from an external SAP system.
The customer specifies the company code name as company ABC in the outbound message.
The customer specifies the partner functions sold-to party and bill-to party in the outbound message.
In your system, you use 10100080 to represent the sold-to party and 10100011 to represent the bill-to party for this
customer.
The following mapping is required:
Company Code Name
Partner Function
Internal Partner
company ABC
Sold-to Party
company ABC
Bill-to Party

---

Supplier's System ID
Company code (key and name)
Purchasing document type
Purchasing group (key and name)
Purchasing organization (key and name)
Partner function
External partner number
Address name
You, as a key user for configuration, can implement the flexible determination of internal partner numbers by performing the Define
Formulas for Internal Partner Number configuration activity. In your configuration environment, use the search function to open this
activity. For more information, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
Multiple Address Handling
After multiple address handling is enabled, when you implement this flexible determination procedure to determine an internal partner
number, you may be required to enter an address number to go with the internal partner number, so that the system knows which
address of this internal partner it should use. For partner function Payer, and partner functions which do not belong to the partner type
Customer (KU), address numbers are not required. For more information about multiple address handling for business partners in sales
and distribution and how to enable it, see Multiple Address Handling in SD Documents Using SAP Business Partner.
The following example illustrates the use case for the flexible determination of internal partner numbers and address numbers:
Set Fallback Rules for Flexible Determination Rules
As a general rule, if you have activated a formula for the flexible determination of internal partner numbers in the configuration activity
Define Formulas for Internal Partner Number, the system would no longer apply the static rules in the configuration activity Convert
External to Internal Partner Numbers. However, by enabling fallback rules, you can consolidate the static procedure into the flexible
Example
Your SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition system is integrated with an external SAP system. The customer uses a SOAP
service to send purchase order information from an external SAP system. You have enabled multiple address handling in SD
document.
The customer uses customer number SF001, external partner number 1010 for both sold-to party and billing-to party in the
outbound message.
In your system, you will use 10100010 to represent the sold-to party and bill-to party of the customer, but you will use
Shanghai for the sold-to party, London for the bill-to party.
The following mapping is required:
Customer
Partner Function
External Partner
Internal Partner
Address Number
Address
Description
SF001
Sold-to Party
Shanghai
SF001
Bill-to Party
London

---

determination procedure. This means when no valid result is returned based on the flexible determination rules in the configuration
activity Define Formulas for Internal Partner Number, the system can conditionally (depending on the rules you maintained in the
fallback usage task) trigger fallback logic and redetermine the internal partner number according to the static rules in the configuration
activity Convert External to Internal Partner Numbers. This can save you the efforts of migrating entries from one table to another,
and ensures a smooth transition from a standard procedure to a flexible procedure. For more information about how to set fallback
rules, see the configuration help in the Define Formulas for Internal Partner Number activity.
The following example illustrates the uses cases of setting fallback rules:
Related Information
Implementing Flexible Determination of Internal Partner Numbers
Example
You have activated a formula in the configuration activity Define Formulas for Internal Partner Number and maintained the
following entry in the decision table for flexible determination of internal partner numbers:
Operator
Buyer System
ID
Operator
Company Code
Operator
Function
Internal Partner
ANID001
SP (Sold-to
Party)
You have maintained the following entries in the fallback logic usage task:
Operator
Company Code
Operator
Partner Function
Fallback Active
SP (Sold-to Party)
(Do not consider)
BP (Bill-to Party)
You have maintained the following entry in the static table of configuration activity Convert External to Internal Partner Numbers:
Customer
Partner Function
External Partner
Internal Partner Number
T001
SP (Sold-to Party)
Now you receive several inbound EDI messages for creating sales orders from customer T001:
A message containing the buyer system ID ANID001 and company code 1010: The system would firstly compare the input
parameters with the conditions in the first table. When there is a hit, the system returns the result of internal partner number
10100080.
A message containing the buyer system ID ANID002 and company code 1010: When the first table fails to provide a hit, the
system would compare the input parameters with the second table. When there is a hit, and the returned fallback indicator is
active, the system would then try to redetermine internal partner number from the third table. When there is a hit in the third
table, the system would then use 1010080 as the internal partner number of the sold-to party.
A message containing the buyer system ID ANID002 and external partner number 1011: This message can only satisfy the
second condition of the fallback decision table. When the system triggers the fallback logic to redetermine internal partner
number from the third table, if the third table cannot provide a hit, the system would raise an error message and stops
processing this EDI message.

---

Multiple Address Handling in SD Documents Using SAP Business Partner
Sales Order/Customer Return - Create, Update, Cancel (B2B)
Implementing Flexible Determination of Internal Partner Numbers
Using the Configurable Parameters and Formulas (CPF) framework, you, as a key user for configuration, can define rules that the
system uses to determine internal partner numbers for sales orders and returns orders. These rules enable a flexible mapping of the
internal partner number with one or more fields in the inbound message received from the Sales Order/Customer Return - Create,
Update, Cancel (B2B) service in SOAP-to-SOAP scenarios.
The CPF implementation evaluates rules specified in a decision table within a CPF formula. In this context, a CPF formula comprises
the combination of relevant parameters and one decision table.
Configuration Overview
By activating a formula, you assign a set of rules for the system to dynamically determine the internal partner numbers for the sales
orders or returns orders created or updated from the inbound message. You maintain these rules within the decision table of the
formula.
You, as a key user for configuration, create and activate the formula by performing the Define Formulas for Internal Partner
Number configuration activity. In your configuration environment, use the search function to open this activity. For more information, see
Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
Input Parameters and Result Parameters
The rules in the decision table determine the correct output parameter INTERNAL_PARTNER (that is, the internal partner number) by
evaluating whether specific input parameters satisfy conditional rules that you have specified within the rows of the decision table. The
value of most of the input parameter comes from the inbound message.
The following table shows the input parameters that can be evaluated in the decision table and the corresponding fields in service
Sales Order/Customer Return - Create, Update, Cancel (B2B):
Input Parameter
Description
Corresponding Field
in Node
Buyer System (BUYER_SYSTEM_ID)
System ID of the buyer
(currently, buyer's ANID)
BuyerSystemID
Order
Supplier System
(SUPPLIER_SYSTEM_ID)
System ID of the supplier
(currently, supplier's ANID)
SupplierSystemID
Company Code (COMPANY_CODE)
Company code of the
purchasing organization
CompanyCode
Company Code Name
(COMPANY_CODE_NAME)
Purchasing organization
name used in the
CompanyCodeName
 Note
If you have enabled multiple address handling in SD document, address number will be included in the decision table as part of the
result parameter.
 Note
The partner function is a mandatory input parameter. You must assign and use it in the formula.

---

Input Parameter
Description
Corresponding Field
in Node
incoming purchase order
Purchasing Document Type
(PURCHASING_DOCUMENT_TYPE)
Classifies types of
purchasing document that
require different
processing by the system,
for example, purchase
order.
PurchasingDocumentType
Purchasing Group
(PURCHASING_GROUP)
A key for a buyer or a
group of buyers
responsible for certain
purchasing activities.
PurchasingGroup
Purchasing Group Description
(PURCHASING_GROUP_NAME)
Purchasing group name
used in the incoming
purchase order.
PurchasingGroupName
Purchasing Organization
(PURCHASING_ORGANIZATION)
The purchasing
organization procures
materials and services,
negotiates conditions of
purchase with suppliers,
and is responsible for
such transactions.
PurchasingOrganization
Purchasing Organization Description
(PURCHASING_ORGANIZATION_NAME)
Purchasing organization
name used in the
incoming purchase order
PurchasingOrganizationName
Partner Function (PARTNER_FUNCTION)
Function of the partner
depending on the role that
the partner plays in this
process.
PartyType
Party(header and item
level)
External Partner (BUYER_PARTY_ID)
Partner number used on
the buyer side. In static
setting, this is the external
partner number.
BuyerPartyID
Address Name (ADDRESS_NAME)
Address name of the
partner
AddressName
Customer (CUSTOMER_ID)
Buyer ID determined and
used on supplier side
N/A
Decision Table Logic
You create your decision table by creating one table row per rule that you want the system to evaluate based on the parameter values.
Each row represents a rule that the system uses to determine internal partner numbers. Each rule is a conditional expression that
specifies values for some or all of the input parameters, as well as for the output parameter.
Through the input parameters, the system compares the fields in the inbound message for order creation or update to the values you
have maintained in the decision table. It processes the rules in the decision table sequentially from top to bottom. For each parameter,
 Note
This data is not from the inbound message.

---

you can specify an operator as follows:
Operator = (Equal to)
If this operator is set, the system considers the corresponding parameter as a hit if the parameter value provided by the inbound
message fields is equal to the value you have specified in the corresponding column of the decision table. If every parameter in
a row provides a hit, the rule represented by the row is applied and the internal partner number specified in that row in result
parameter is determined for the sales order or returns order to be created or updated.
No Operator (Do not consider)
If the operator cell is left empty (‘blank/space’), the corresponding parameter is ignored during the evaluation of that row, that is,
the parameter cell is treated as a wildcard. This setting is useful when you want to treat a parameter for which ‘blank/space’ is a
valid value as a wildcard.
After you have entered the rows representing the rules that you want to evaluate, the system automatically orders them based on the
priority that you have assigned to each parameter in the previous step. To achieve the final order, the system sorts the rows as follows:
1. First, the rows are sorted according to the parameter with the highest priority (that is, the parameter in the left-most column).
Rows in which a specific value (as opposed to a wildcard) is filled for this parameter rise to the top.
2. After this initial sort, the same principle is applied for the parameter with the second highest priority (second column from the
left) to establish the relative order of the rows within the overarching order established by the previous sort.
3. This process is repeated for each subsequent parameter to establish the final order of the rows, which ultimately dictates the
sequence in which the system processes the rules that you have specified.
The system then sequentially processes the rules by comparing the supplied input parameters against the conditions defined in the
rules, starting with the first row and ending with the first hit. If there is no hit, processing ends at the last row without any rule being
applied.
All cells are evaluated by checking the column value against the corresponding parameter value. For each cell, a boolean result is
returned. If all cells in a row are evaluated as true, the evaluation stops and the system returns the result subparameter as specified for
the current row. Otherwise, processing continues with the next table row until either a matching set of conditions is found or the end of
the table is reached. If no rule is satisfied and the end of the table is reached, the system stops processing and displays an error
message in the Message Dashboard app.
Example
Your SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition system is integrated with SAP Business Network and creates, updates, or cancels sales
orders based on purchase orders generated or updated in SAP Business Network.
You fill a row so that for the sold-to party (using operation =) of sales orders created from buyer system AN00001 (operator =) with
an empty company code (operator =, empty parameter cell) , the internal partner number is 10100080.
The next row, however, assigns the sold-to party of sales orders created from buyer system AN00001 with company code 1010
(operator =) to internal partner number 10100011.
The third row assigns sold-to party of sales orders created from buyer system AN00001 with any company code (no operator, that is,
wildcard, and empty parameter cell) to internal partner number 10100012.
In an actual decision table, these three rows would look as shown in the following table:
Decision Table
Input Parameter
Output
Parameter

---

For more instructions on how to create the formula, see the configuration help in the Define Formulas for Internal Partner Number
activity.
Related Information
Sales Order/Customer Return - Create, Update, Cancel (B2B)
Order
Party
Flexible Determination of Sales Area and Sales Document Types
When a sales document is created or changed, the system can evaluate specific fields in the inbound EDI message to dynamically
determine the sales area, sales document types, and discrepancy allowance for payment terms for the sales document to be updated
or created.
In SOAP-to-SOAP scenarios, the customer uses a SOAP service to send outbound messages that contain purchase order data. Using
the SOAP service Sales Order/Customer Return - Create, Update, Cancel (B2B), your system receives inbound messages
containing corresponding sales order data and creates, updates, or cancels sales orders or returns orders. Previously, you must assign
a sales area, document type, and discrepancy allowance for payment terms to the combination of customer ID and supplier ID you
receive from the inbound EDI message. However, in SAP Business Network, the customer cannot maintain the customer number in
supplier system, or the supplier number in buyer system. With this feature, you can now define rules for the system to flexibly determine
the sale area, document type, and discrepancy allowance for payment terms according to wider range of fields in the inbound EDI
message.
Through the procedures described below, your system can determine the sales area, document type and discrepancy allowance for
payment terms for the sales order or returns order to be created or updated.
Standard Procedure for Determination of Sales Area and Sales Document Types
When your system receives an inbound message to create or change a sales document, according to the customer number and
supplier number, the system can propose the sales area, sales document types as well as the discrepancy allowance for payment
terms for the sales document to be created or updated.
You, as a key user for configuration, can define the assignment by performing the Assign Customer/Supplier to Sales Organization
Data configuration activity. In your configuration environment, you can use the search function to open this activity. For more
information, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
Operator
Buyer System
Operator
Company Code
Operator
Partner Function
Internal Partner
AN00001
<blank>
Sold-to Party
AN00001
<do not
consider>
Sold-to Party
AN00001
<do not
consider>
<blank>
Sold-to Party
If the inbound message contains buyer system ID AN00001, partner function sold-to party, and no company code, the system
determines internal partner number 10100080 for the sales order. If the inbound message also contains company code 1010, the
system finds internal partner number 10100011. If the company code in the inbound message is not empty or 1010 (for example,
1020), the system determines internal partner number 10100012.

---

Procedure for Flexible Determination of Sales Area and Sales Document Types
Your business requirements may demand that the sales area, sales document types, and discrepancy allowance for payment terms
must be determined according to wider range of fields. If the standard, static procedure described above can’t fulfill your business
requirements, you can implement a flexible form of determination procedure. The flexible procedure determines the sales area,
document types, and discrepancy allowance for payment terms based on the evaluation of specific data in the inbound message
received by the Sales Order/Customer Return - Create, Update, Cancel (B2B) service.
The following examples illustrate the use cases for the flexible determination of sales area, sales document types, and discrepancy
allowance for payment terms:
The above examples are simple use cases for illustration purposes. When implementing the flexible determination of sales area and
sales document types, configuration experts can create as complex a set of conditions as required.
Example
Your SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition system is integrated with SAP Business Network and creates, updates, or cancels
sales orders or returns orders based on purchase orders generated or updated in SAP Business Network.
The purchase order is sent from SAP Business Network in which your customer's system is identified as AN00001.
The customer specifies the company code and purchasing organization in their outbound message.
In your system, you create a standard order (OR) for this customer with sales organization 0001, distribution channel 01,
division 01 and discrepancy not allowed for payment terms.
The following mapping in the decision table is required:
Buyer
System
Company
Code
Purchasing
Organization
Sales
Organization
Distribution
Channel
Division
Sales
Document
Type
Return
Order Type
Discrepancy
Allowance
for Payment
Terms
AN00001
OR
<blank>
B
Example
Your SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition system is integrated with an external SAP system. The customer uses a SOAP
service to send purchase order information from an external SAP system.
The purchase order is sent from the customer's system, in which the supplier is identified as 10100080.
The customer specifies the purchasing group and sends their customer number in the outbound message.
In your system, you create a standard order (OR) for this customer with sales organization 0003, distribution channel 01,
division 01 and discrepancy allowed for payment terms.
The following mapping in the decision table is required:
Customer
(Sold-to
Party)
Supplier
Purchasing
Sales
Organization
Distribution
Channel
Division
Sales
Document
Type
Return
Order Type
Discrepancy
Allowance
for Payment
Terms
OR
<blank>
A

---

Assignments can be made freely on combinations of the following fields in the inbound message:
Buyer's system ID
Supplier's system ID
Company code (key and name)
Purchasing document type
Purchasing group (key and name)
Purchasing organization (key and name)
Customer (Sold-to Party)
Supplier
You, as a key user for configuration, can implement the flexible determination of sales area and sales document types by performing
the Define Formulas for Sales Area and Sales Document Types configuration activity. In your configuration environment, use the
search function to open this activity.
Set Fallback Rules for Flexible Determination Rules
As a general rule, if you have activated a formula for the flexible determination of sales area and sales document types in the
configuration activity Define Formulas for Sales Area and Sales Document Types, the system would no longer apply the static rules
in the configuration activity Assign Customer/Supplier to Sales Organization Data. However, by enabling fallback rules, you can
consolidate the static procedure into the flexible determination procedure. This means when no valid result is returned based on the
flexible determination rules in the configuration activity Define Formulas for Sales Area and Sales Document Types, the system can
conditionally (depending on the rules you maintained in the fallback usage task) trigger fallback logic and redetermine the sales area,
document types, and discrepancy allowance for payment terms according to the static rules in the configuration activity Assign
Customer/Supplier to Sales Organization Data. This can save you the efforts of migrating entries from one table to another, and
ensures a smooth transition from a standard procedure to a flexible procedure. For more information about how to set fallback rules,
see the configuration help in the Define Formulas for Sales Area and Sales Document Types activity.
The following example illustrates a use case of setting fallback rules:
Example
You have activated a formula in the configuration activity Define Formulas for Sales Area and Sales Document Types and
maintained the following entry in the decision table for flexible determination of sales area and document type data:
Operator
Customer
(Sold-to
Party)
Operator
Supplier
Operator
Company
Code
Sales
Organization
Distribution
Channel
Division
Sales
Document
Type
Return
Order
Type
OR
<blank
You have maintained the following entries in the fallback logic usage task:
Operator
Company Code
Operator
Customer (Sold-to
Party)
Fallback Active
(Do not consider)

---

Related Information
Implementing Flexible Determination of Sales Area and Sales Document Types
Implementing Flexible Determination of Sales Area and Sales
Document Types
Using the Configurable Parameters and Formulas (CPF) framework, you, as a key user for configuration, can define rules that the
system uses to determine sales area, sales document types, and discrepancy allowance for payment terms for sales orders or returns
orders. These rules enable the flexible determination of sales area, sales document types and discrepancy allowance check for
payment terms according to the information in the inbound message received from the Sales Order/Customer Return - Create,
Update, Cancel (B2B) service in SOAP-to-SOAP scenarios.
The CPF implementation evaluates rules specified in a decision table within a CPF formula. In this context, a CPF formula comprises
the combination of relevant parameters and one decision table.
Configuration Overview
By activating a formula, you assign a set of rules for the system to dynamically determine the sales area, sales document types, and
discrepancy allowance check for payment terms for sales orders or returns orders created or updated from the inbound message. You
maintain these rules within the decision table of the formula.
You, as a key user for configuration, create and activate the formula by performing the Define Formulas for Sales Area and Sales
Document Types configuration activity. In your configuration environment, use the search function to open this activity. For more
information, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
You have maintained the following entry in the static table of configuration activity Assign Customer/Supplier to Sales
Organization Data:
Customer
(Sold-to
Party)
Supplier
Sales
Organization
Distribution
Channel
Division
Sales
Document
Type
Return Order
Type
Discrepancy
Allowance for
Payment
Terms
OR
<blank>
A
Now you receive several inbound EDI messages for creating sales orders from customer (sold-to party) 1000620:
A message containing the supplier 1010080 and company code 1001: The system would firstly compare the input
parameters with the conditions in the first table. When there is a hit, the system returns the corresponding sales area and
document type data.
A message containing the supplier 1010080 and company code 1010: When the first table fails to provide a hit, the system
would compare the input parameters with the second table. When there is a hit, and the returned fallback indicator is active,
the system would then try to redetermine sales area and document types from the third table. When there is a hit in the third
table, the system would then use the corresponding results.
A message containing the supplier 1010081, company code 1011: This message can only satisfy the second condition of the
fallback decision table. When the system triggers the fallback logic to redetermine sales area and document types from the
third table, if the third table cannot provide a hit, the system would raise an error message and stops processing this EDI
message.

---

Input Parameters and Result Parameters
The rules in the decision table determine the correct output parameters, including sales organization, distribution channel, division,
sales document type, return order type, and discrepancy allowance check for payment terms, by evaluating whether specific input
parameters satisfy conditional rules that you have specified within the rows of the decision table. The value of most of the input
parameter comes from the inbound message.
The following table shows the input parameters that can be evaluated in the decision table and the corresponding fields in service
Sales Order/Customer Return - Create, Update, Cancel (B2B):
Input Parameter
Description
Corresponding Field
in Node
Buyer System (BUYER_SYSTEM_ID)
System ID of the buyer
BuyerSystemID
Order
Supplier System
(SUPPLIER_SYSTEM_ID)
System ID of the supplier
SupplierSystemID
CUSTOMER_ID
Sold-to party ID determined
and used on supplier side
The value of this parameter can be
received from or determined by
various means:
Received from the
SupplierPartyID of
party type SoldTo
Determined by the
configuration activity Convert
External to Internal Partner
Numbers
Flexiblly determined by the
configuration activity Define
Formulas for Internal
Partner Number
For more details, see Flexible
Determination of Sales Area and
Sales Document Types.
Company Code (COMPANY_CODE)
Company code of the
purchasing organization
CompanyCode
Company Code Name
(COMPANY_CODE_NAME)
Description of company
code used in the incoming
purchase order
CompanyCodeName
Purchasing Document Type
(PURCHASING_DOCUMENT_TYPE)
Classifies types of
purchasing document that
require different processing
by the system, for example,
purchase order.
PurchasingDocumentType
Purchasing Group
(PURCHASING_GROUP)
A key for a buyer or a group
of buyers responsible for
certain purchasing
activities.
PurchasingGroup
 Note
Only supported in the scope item
2EL (Integration of Sales with External
Buyers)

---

Input Parameter
Description
Corresponding Field
in Node
Purchasing Group Description
(PURCHASING_GROUP_NAME)
Purchasing group name
used in the incoming
purchase order.
PurchasingGroupName
Purchasing Organization
(PURCHASING_ORGANIZATION)
The purchasing
organization procures
materials and services,
negotiates conditions of
purchase with suppliers,
and is responsible for such
transactions.
PurchasingOrganization
Purchasing Organization Description
(PURCHASING_ORGANIZATION_NAME)
Purchasing organization
name used in the incoming
purchase order
PurchasingOrganizationName
Supplier ID
(SUPPLIER_ID_IN_BUYER)
Supplier's ID in the buyer's
system
BuyerPartyID
Party
Decision Table Logic
You create your decision table by creating one table row per rule that you want the system to evaluate based on the parameter values.
Each row represents a rule that the system uses to determine sales area, sales document types, and discrepancy allowance check for
payment terms. Each rule is a conditional expression that specifies values for some or all of the input parameters, as well as for the
output parameter.
Through the input parameters, the system compares the fields in the inbound message to the values you have maintained in the
decision table. It processes the rules in the decision table sequentially from top to bottom. For each parameter, you can specify an
operator as follows:
Operator = (Equal to)
If this operator is set, the system considers the corresponding parameter as a hit if the parameter value provided by the inbound
message fields is equal to the value you have specified in the corresponding column of the decision table. If every parameter in
a row provides a hit, the rule represented by the row is applied and the values in the result parameter are determined for the
sales order or returns order to be created or updated.
No Operator (Do not consider)
If the operator cell is left empty (‘blank/space’), the corresponding parameter is ignored during the evaluation of that row, that is,
the parameter cell is treated as a wildcard. This setting is useful when you want to treat a parameter for which ‘blank/space’ is a
valid value as a wildcard.
After you have entered the rows representing the rules that you want to evaluate, the system automatically orders them based on the
priority that you have assigned to each parameter in the previous step. To achieve the final order, the system sorts the rows as follows:
1. First, the rows are sorted according to the parameter with the highest priority (that is, the parameter in the left-most column).
Rows in which a specific value (as opposed to a wildcard) is filled for this parameter rise to the top.
2. After this initial sort, the same principle is applied for the parameter with the second highest priority (second column from the
left) to establish the relative order of the rows within the overarching order established by the previous sort.
3. This process is repeated for each subsequent parameter to establish the final order of the rows, which ultimately dictates the
sequence in which the system processes the rules that you have specified.

---

The system then sequentially processes the rules by comparing the supplied input parameters against the conditions defined in the
rules, starting with the first row and ending with the first hit. If there is no hit, processing ends at the last row without any rule being
applied.
All cells are evaluated by checking the column value against the corresponding parameter value. For each cell, a boolean result is
returned. If all cells in a row are evaluated as true, the evaluation stops and the system returns the result parameters as specified for
the current row. Otherwise, processing continues with the next table row until either a matching set of conditions is found or the end of
the table is reached. If no rule is satisfied and the end of the table is reached, the system stops processing and displays an error
message in the Message Dashboard app.
For more instructions on how to create the formula, see the configuration help in the Define Formulas for Sales Area and Sales
Document Types activity.
Flexible Item Category Determination
You as a configuration expert can define business rules for the flexible determination of default item categories.
Example
Your SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition system is integrated with SAP Business Network and creates, updates, or cancels sales
orders based on purchase orders generated or updated in SAP Business Network.
You fill the first row so that for the company code 1010 (using operator =), purchasing organization 0001, supplier system ID 000001
of sales orders created from buyer system AN00001 (operator =), the sales organization is determined as 0001, distribution channel
01, division 01, sales document type OR (standard order), and discrepancy for payment terms allowed.
The next row, however, you leave the company code as blank, and do not consider the purchasing organization and the supplier
system.
In the third row, you do not consider the company code, purchasing organization or the supplier system.
In an actual decision table, these three rows would look as shown in the following table:
Decision Table
Input Parameter
Output Para
Operator
Buyer
System
Operator
Company
Code
Operator
Purchasing
Organization
Operator
Supplier
System
Sales
Organization
Distribution
Channel
Division
AN00001
AN00001
<blank>
<do not
consider>
<blank>
<do not
consider>
<blank>
AN00001
<do not
consider>
<blank>
If the inbound message contains buyer system ID AN00001, company code 1010, purchasing organization 0001, and supplier
system ID 000001, the system determines the first row of the results for the sales order. If the inbound message does not contain a
company code, the system determines the second row of results. If the company code in the inbound message is neither empty nor
1010 (for example, 1020), the system determines the third row of results.

---

Item categories help to further narrow down how sales document items behave and thus meet different demands in the business
process. The system can evaluate specific business conditions and propose an item category according to your business rules instead
of the default item category assignment. This helps to automate sales document processing. For example, you can set the system to
propose the CBAO item category when certain business conditions are met, so that the billing plan is automatically enabled.
This feature is available in the following sales documents: sales quotations, sales orders, and sales orders without charge with one of
the following sales document types:
Sales quotations with document type AG / QT(quotation)
Sales orders with document type TA / OR (standard order)
Sales orders without charge with document type CBFD / CBFD (delivery free of charge)
Sales orders with custom sales order types
Once enabled, the flexible item category determination is triggered when an item has an empty category. This is the case, for example,
when you create a sales quotation or when you create a standard order from reference and the item category is not prefilled.
For more information about item categories in general, see Item Categories.
Standard Determination
In the configuration activity Assign Item Categories (ID: 102807), each entry represents an assignment of item categories (one default
item category and optional alternatives) to a combination of the following conditions:
Sales document type
Item category group
Item category of higher-level item
Item category usage
When you create an item, the system checks these conditions in your sales document, finds the corresponding entry of the item
category assignment, and proposes the default item category accordingly. If needed, you can manually change the item category to one
of the allowed alternatives that is assigned in the same entry.
 Note
This feature is only supported if your configuration environment is based on SAP Central Business Configuration.
For more details about custom sales order types, see Custom Sales Order Types.
 Tip
In your configuration environment, use the search function to open the configuration activity Assign Item Categories. For more
information, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
Example
You have the following item category assignment:

---

For more information about the standard determination of item categories, see Determining the Item Category.
Flexible Determination
However, your business context may require that a different item category is automatically proposed when the item fulfills some other
business conditions. To achieve this, you implement the flexible item category determination by defining business rules in a decision
table to map item categories with conditions.
Decision Table
In this decision table, each row refers to an existing item category assignment. This means that, in each row, an alternative item
category is mapped with your business conditions plus the same conditions in the item category assignment in the Assign Item
Categories configuration activity.
Once implemented, the system evaluates the decision table to determine item categories.
If all the conditions in a row are satisfied, the system proposes the item category specified in this row.
If not, the system uses the fallback logic (that is, the standard determination logic) instead and proposes the default item
category.
For more details about the default behavior for evaluating a decision table, see Decision Table Expression.
Example
Sales
Document
Type
Item
Category
Item
Category
Usage
Item
Category of
Higher-Level
Item
Default Item
Category
Alternative
Item
Category 1
Alternative
Item
Category 2
Alternative
Item
Category 3
OR
NORM
<empty>
<empty>
TAN
CBXN
CBLN
CBAO
When you create a standard item (item category group NORM) in a standard order (sales document type OR), the system proposes
the default item category (TAN). If needed, you can manually change TAN to the one of the alternatives (CBXN, CBLN, or CBAO).
 Note
This feature is available in sales quotations, sales orders, and sales orders without charge.
In this section, a sales document refers to a sales quotation, sales order, or sales order without charges, an item refers to one in a
sales quotation, sales order, or sales order without charges.
Example
You have an existing item category assignment (see example 1). Your sales organization ORG1 requires down payments on all its
products.
You want the system to automatically propose the alternative item category CBAO used for the milestone billing plan when the
corresponding sales organization is ORG1. You define the following business rule in a decision table:
Sales Document
Type
Item Category
Item Category
Usage
Item Category of
Higher-Level Item
Sales Organization
Item Category
= OR
= NORM
<empty>
<empty>
= ORG1
= CBAO

---

Business Conditions
In line with your business requirements, you can create a set of conditions using the following fields:
Sales organization
Distribution channel
Organization division
Customer group on sales document header
SD document reason
Sales office
Sales group
Tax destination country/region
Tax departure country/region
Sales document date
Product group in product master
Product group 1 in product master
Product group 2 in product master
Product group 3 in product master
Product group 4 in product master
Product group 5 in product master
Customer group 1 on sales document header
Customer group 2 on sales document header
Customer group 3 on sales document header
Customer group 4 on sales document header
Customer group 5 on sales document header
The alternative item category CBAO is now mapped to the sales organization ORG1 and the same conditions in the item category
assignment (that is, sales document type OR, item category group NORM, empty item category usage, and empty item category of
higher-level item).
After this implementation, when you create a standard item in a standard order, the system flexibly determines the item category by
taking your business condition into consideration:
If the item belongs to the sales organization ORG1 (that is, the item requires a down payment), the system proposes the item
category CBAO used for the milestone billing plan.
In other words, the system now automatically enables the billing plan when the newly created sales order item requires
billing plans.
If this item belongs to a different sales organization or does not belong to any sales organization, the system finds no logic in
your decision table. The system proposes the default item category TAN.

---

Payment terms on sales document header
Plant determined by the system
This plant is determined in the following priority sequence until the system finds a value:
1. Plant manually entered on the item
2. Plant on the higher-level item
3. Delivering plant on the sales document header
4. Delivering plant on the customer product info record
5. Delivering plant on the ship-to party
6. Delivering plant on the product master data
Custom fields (see Extensibility: Flexible Item Category Determination (Key User))
Related Information
Enabling Flexible Item Category Determination
Extensibility: Flexible Item Category Determination (Key User)
Item Categories
Enabling Flexible Item Category Determination
Implement the flexible item category determination by using the Business Rule Framework plus (BRFplus).
Context
As a key user for configuration, you create a set of BRFplus objects, including a decision table expression, for each available sales
document category. Then, you configure business rules in each decision table expression that is assigned to the sales document
category. Such business rules enable a flexible mapping of item categories with specific fields in the sales quotations, sales orders, or
sales orders without charge.
Procedure
1. Create BRFplus objects in configuration activity Create BRFplus Objects for Sales Document Categories.
 Note
When creating a sales document item with reference, the system uses the plant on the referenced item to flexibly determine
the item category for your new item. If the referenced item doesn't contain plant information, the system will determine a
plant.
 Tip
In your configuration environment, use the search function to open the following activities. For more information, see Configuration
Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
For more detailed information about each configuration activity, see the dedicated configuration help within each activity.
 Tip

---

2. Optional: Update BRFplus objects in configuration activity Create BRFplus Objects for Sales Document Categories.
You update existing BRFplus objects to use the up-to-date predelivered fields and custom fields in your BRFplus decision
tables.
3. Configure business rules in BRFplus.
Related Information
Extensibility: Flexible Item Category Determination (Key User)
Creating BRFplus Objects
Updating BRFplus Objects with New Fields
Configuring Business Rules in BRFplus
For detailed steps, see Creating BRFplus Objects.
In this implementation, use the custom adaptation scenario for flexible item category determination
(ITEM_CATEGORY_DETERMINATION).
 Tip
For detailed steps, see Updating BRFplus Objects with New Fields.
For more information about creating custom fields, see Extensibility: Flexible Item Category Determination (Key
User).
In this implementation, use the custom adaptation scenario for flexible item category determination
(ITEM_CATEGORY_DETERMINATION).
 Tip
For detailed steps, see Configuring Business Rules in BRFplus.
 Recommendation
When you add values to the decision table, choose values for the following conditions and the result by using the search
help:
Sales document type
The available values are: TA, AG, and CBFD
Item category group
The available values are: 0002, 0004, CB02, CB32, CBNA, CBOR, CBUK, SERV, ERLA, LUMF, CPFH, DISH, NLAG,
and NORM.
Item category of higher-level item
Item usage
The available values are: TEXT and <blank>.
Item category
This prevents inconsistencies between your business rules and the existing item category assignments in the Assign Item
Categories configuration activity.

---

Extensibility: Flexible Item Category Determination (Key User)
As a key user, you can extend business conditions according to your business needs.
You can create custom fields for sales documents and use them as condition contexts in your BRFplus decision table:
1. Create custom fields:
Custom Fields on Sales Document Header
Custom Fields on Sales Document Item
2. Add custom fields to BRFplus objects in the configuration activity Create BRFplus Objects for Sales Document Categories.
You update the existing BRFplus object so that the custom fields are available in your BRFplus decision table. For details, see
Updating BRFplus Objects with New Fields.
3. Add decision table columns in the Simplified BRFplus Workbench app.
When the custom fields are available as condition context in your BRFplus decision table, you can add the respective columns
in your decision table and update your business rules. For details about adding columns, see step five in Configuring Business
Rules in BRFplus.
Custom Fields on Sales Document Header
You can create custom fields for sales document headers in the Custom Fieldsapp.
You can create a field with the business context Sales: Sales Document, enable the usage of it for the data source
I_SlsDocItmCatDetnCstmParam in the User Interfaces section, and publish it.
Custom Fields on Sales Document Item
Custom Fields from Master Records
You can create custom fields and forward them from master records (customer material records and product master records) to sales
document items in the Custom Fields app:
1. Create a field with one of the following business contexts and enable the usage of it for the corresponding scenario in the
Business Scenarios section.
 Note
Ensure each field has a unique identification.
For example, you have created a custom field with identifier My_Field on the header level of sales documents. If you want
to create another field on the item level of sales documents, you must use a different identifier (for example My_Field_2)
to differentiate the condition context in the BRFplus.
 Note
When creating sales orders with references using the Sales Order (A2A) API, you must implement custom logic using the
Modification of Header Custom Fields in Sales Documents (SD_SLS_MODIFY_HEAD) BAdI so that custom fields can be
included in the newly created sales orders and thus used in the flexible item category determination.

---

Business Context
Business Scenario
Sales: Customer Material
Customer Material to Sales Document Item
Master Data: Product General
Product to Sales Document Item
Master Data: Product Plant
Product Plant to Sales Document Item
As a result, the system automatically creates a field with business context Sales: Sales Document Item that contains the same
label, identifier, tooltip, type, and length.
2. In the auto-created field with business context Sales: Sales Document Item, enable the usage of the field for the data source
I_SlsDocItmCatDetnItmCstmParam in the User Interfaces section.
As a result, the system automatically enables the usage of this auto-created field for the business scenario that you chose in the
previous step.
3. Publish both fields.
When you publish a field with one of the business context, the system automatically publishes the field with the other business
context.
Related Information
Custom Fields
Extensibility
Process Extensibility for Sales Documents and Billing Documents
Updating BRFplus Objects with New Fields
Creating BRFplus Objects
Context
As a key user for configuration, you create BRFplus applications, functions, and expressions from templates. You perform this in the
configuration activity Create BRFplus Objects for Sales Document Categories.
Procedure
 Note
If the same custom field exists in all three business scenarios, the system processes them in a descending order of priority:
a. Customer Material to Sales Document Item (for copying data from the customer material )
b. Product Plant to Sales Document Item (for copying data from the product's plant data)
c. Product to Sales Document Item (for copying data from the product's general data)
If a custom field exists in multiple business scenarios, the system always copies the custom field from the master data of a
higher priority. For example, the custom field "YY1_test" has been enabled for all three business scenarios but no value is
maintained in the customer material data (regardless of whether a value is maintained in product master data), the custom
field would be empty in sales document items.
Example

---

1. Open the configuration activity Create BRFplus Objects for Sales Document Categories (ID: 106584).
In your configuration environment, use the search function to open this configuration activity. For more information, see
Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
2. On the initial pop-up screen, use the search help to find the custom adaptation scenario and apply.
Choose the custom adaptation scenario according to your implementation.
Implementation
Custom Adaptation Scenario
Flexible Item Category Determination
ITEM_CATEGORY_DETERMINATION
3. On the detail screen of the chosen custom adaptation scenario, create an entry for a sales document category.
You can create one entry only for each available sales document category.
4. On the detail screen of the new entry, choose a sales document category and press Enter .
A BRFplus application template is provided. The application template includes a function template and an expression template.
5. Copy the template to create your BRFplus objects.
6. On the pop-up screen, specify the name and description of your application.
An application, a function, and a decision table expression are created from templates and assigned to the chosen sales
document category.
7. Save your work.
The following quick demo shows you how to create BRFplus objects for sales orders. It displays screens and interfaces in English
only and doesn't include audio.
Open this video in a new window
 Note
Although the application name is technical in nature, it doesn't identify an application from a technical perspective.
In the Simplified BRFplus Workbench app, you can find application IDs that identify the applications.

---

Next Steps
Navigate to the Simplified BRFplus Workbench app (see the example below) and configure your business rules (see Configuring
Business Rules in BRFplus).
The following animated GIF shows you how to navigate to the Simplified BRFplus Workbench app. It displays screens and interfaces
in English only.
Example: Navigating to Simplified BRFplus Workbench
You can also reassign your BRFplus objects to sales document categories. For more details, see the dedicated configuration help within
the Create BRFplus Objects for Sales Document Categories configuration activity.
If you want to remove your BRFplus objects assignment, delete the entry for the sales document category.
Updating BRFplus Objects with New Fields
Context
This task is optional.
As a key user for configuration, you update existing BRFplus objects to create business conditions using the up-to-date fields,
including the following:
Up-to-date predelivered fields
Up-to-date custom fields that you created and maintained in the Custom Fields app
For more information, see Extensibility: Flexible Item Category Determination (Key User).
You perform this in the configuration activity Create BRFplus Objects for Sales Document Categories.

---

Procedure
1. Open the configuration activity Create BRFplus Objects for Sales Document Categories (ID: 106584).
In your configuration environment, use the search function to open this configuration activity. For more information, see
Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
2. On the initial pop-up screen, use the search help to find the custom adaptation scenario and apply.
Choose the custom adaptation scenario according to your implementation.
Implementation
Custom Adaptation Scenario
Flexible Item Category Determination
ITEM_CATEGORY_DETERMINATION
3. On the detail screen of the chosen custom adaptation scenario, choose an entry for a sales document category.
4. Update the BRFplus objects.
The system immediately applies your settings and updates the BRFplus objects.
Results
In the respective BRFplus decision table, new condition columns are available.
Related Information
Extensibility: Flexible Item Category Determination (Key User)
Configuring Business Rules in BRFplus
Prerequisites
Ensure the following:
You have created your application, function, and expression from templates.
Your application, function, and expression are assigned to a sales document category in the configuration activity Create
BRFplus Objects for Sales Document Categories.
Context
As a key user for configuration, you create business rules in the BRFplus expressions that have been assigned to sales document
categories. Each expression is a decision table in which you can display more or hide optional context columns, add rows, and specify
values in cells. You perform this in the Simplified BRFplus Workbench app.
Procedure
1. Navigate to the Simplified BRFplus Workbench app by performing one of the following:
 Caution
Keep all other technical settings in the BRFplus.

---

Open an existing entry in the configuration activity Create BRFplus Objects for Sales Document Categories and
choose the Simplified BRFplus Workbench button
Open the configuration activity Configure Business Rules (BRFplus)
The following animated GIF shows you how to navigate from the configuration activity Create BRFplus Objects for Sales
Document Categories to the Simplified BRFplus Workbench app. It displays screens and interfaces in English only.
Example: Navigating to Simplified BRFplus Workbench
2. Personalize the workbench.
For example, you can set the system to display objects by using the short text. For more details, see Workbench
Personalization.
3. Navigate to your decision table expression.
The following animated GIF shows you how to navigate to your decision table in the Simplified BRFplus Workbench app. It
displays screens and interfaces in English only.

---

Example: Navigating to Your Decision Table
a. Find your application in the repository.
b. Expand the application node, the expression node, and then the decision table node.
c. Choose the decision table to display it.
4. Switch to the edit mode.
5. Add columns to your decision table.
The following quick demo shows you how to add a condition column to your decision table. It displays screens and interfaces in
English only and doesn't include audio.
 Caution
Keep all technical settings in the table setting of the decision table. For example:
Keep the default settings for the result data object so that the system doesn't return all matches found.
Keep the default settings for columns about mandatory input and column accessibility.
Example

---

For details, see Creating a Decision Table Expression.
6. Add rows and values in the decision table.
The following quick demo shows you how to add a row to your decision table and how to add values in cells. It displays screens
and interfaces in English only and doesn't include audio.
For details, see Creating a Decision Table Expression.
Open this video in a new window
Example
Open this video in a new window
 Recommendation
Define the business rules starting with the most specific condition in the first row, followed by rules with a decreasingly
specific set of conditions assigned.
 Recommendation
In your implementation for flexible item category determination, to prevent any inconsistencies between your business
rules and the existing item category assignments in the Assign Item Categories configuration activity, choose values for
the following conditions and the result by using the search help:
Sales document type
The available values are: TA, AG, and CBFD
Item category group

---

7. Check the expression.
8. Save and activate the expression as well as the associated function and application.
Results
The implementation is complete for the sales document category to which the activated BRFplus application, function, and expression
are assigned. The flexible item category determination is enabled for sales documents that belong to the sales document category.
Next Steps
Release your transport.
Related Information
Business Rule Framework plus (BRFplus)
Application
Function
Decision Table Expression
Create Sales Documents
Learn how to create sales documents.
App IDs: VA21, VA41, VA31, VA01
The available values are: 0002, 0004, CB02, CB32, CBNA, CBOR, CBUK, CPFH, SERV, ERLA, LUMF, NLAG, and
NORM.
Item category of higher-level item
Item usage
The available values are: TEXT and <blank>.
Item category
 Tip
The “is initial” comparison operator is used in implicit comparisons without a comparison parameter. It creates a
specific condition that is evaluated as true when the input data is empty.
The “is equal to” comparison operator is used in ordinal comparisons. You can use it with an empty comparison
parameter to create a specific condition that is evaluated as true when the input data is empty.
Empty cell value (empty comparison operator and comparison parameter) creates an unspecific empty condition that
is evaluated as true regardless of the input data.
For more details, see Comparison Operations.
 Remember
Always release transports containing your BRFplus objects (that is, transports used for configuring business rules) before you
release the standard configuration transports (that is, transports used for assigning BRFplus objects) to prevent errors and
inconsistent transports.

---

This app comes with different tiles or functions that are embedded in other apps. You can use it to create specific types of sales
documents.
For more information about the features that are available, check the documentation for the relevant sales document category below.
Related Information
Create Sales Quotations - VA21
Create Sales Contracts - VA41
Create Sales Scheduling Agreements - VA31
Create Sales Orders - VA01
Create Sales Orders Without Charge - VA01
Create Credit Memo Requests
Create Debit Memo Requests
Create Customer Return Without Reference - VA01
Structure and Data in a Sales Document
When you create, change, or display a sales document using the apps described under Create Sales Documents, Change Sales
Documents, and Display Sales Documents, the essential data is displayed in three categories:
An overview
This is what is first displayed when you create, change, or display a sales document.
The sales document header
From the overview, you can navigate to the header details by clicking on the corresponding icon next to the customer reference
date.
The data in a sales document header is valid for the entire document. This includes, for example, customer-related data.
The sales document item or items
From the overview, you can navigate to the item details by clicking on the corresponding icon above the item table.
The data in a sales document item can differ from other items. The data includes, for example, materials and ordered quantities.
Overview
The overview contains the most important header data. In addition, you can display various tabs which focus on specific details.
You can navigate between the following tabs:
Sales: This tab contains important fields from the document header, so it is particularly useful when you start creating a
document. It also lists the items.
Item Overview: This tab displays a list of all items. This is particularly useful if your document contains many items.
Item Detail: This tab displays the most important details of a single item. All items are displayed in a list below. You can navigate
between the details for the different items using the arrows.
 Note
Depending on your sales document type, not all of these tabs are displayed.

---

Returns: This tab displays item data relevant to this area. You can, for example, change the refund code.
Ordering Party: This tab lists all items and lets you add information such as the customer material number.
Procurement: This tab displays item data relevant to this area. You can, for example, change the plant from which goods will be
delivered.
Shipping: This tab displays the most important delivery-related information.
Configuration: This tab gives an overview of characteristic attributes for an item. It is particularly useful for materials with a
relatively simple configuration, and for when you work with models in which essential characteristics occur again and again.
Reason for Rejection: This tab contains information about the order reason and reasons for rejection, if any.
Sales Document Header
From the overview, you can navigate to the header details by clicking on the corresponding icon next to the customer reference date.
You can also choose
More   Goto   Header
and the relevant option. Different tabs focus on different data.
Sales Document Item
To display details about a specific item, double-click it. You can also select an item in the list and choose
More   Goto   Item
and
the relevant option. Different tabs focus on different data.
Additional Information
You can also display the following information:
Document Flow
If subsequent documents exist for your document, the system displays a message. To get an overview of these subsequent or
any preceding documents, set the cursor in a field on either header or item level, and choose Display Document Flow. To
show additional information about one of these documents, select it in the document flow and choose
More   Goto
and the
appropriate option.
The system always updates any preceding documents. Updates of subsequent documents in the document flow depend on
your system settings.
 Note
To navigate to the most important tabs, you can also use the following links:
Net Value: Display the condition details for header and item.
Sold-To Party: Display the partner details for header and item.
Sold-to party address: Display the customer master.
Ship-To Party: Display the partner details for header and item.
Ship-to party address: Display the customer master.
Customer Reference: Display order data.
Customer Reference Date: Display order data.

---

Note that you can display the document flow on both header and item level. However, documents related to transportation
management can only be displayed on header level.
Status Overview
Choose Status Overview to display additional information about the current status on header and item level. You can, for
example, see if a sales document header or item is complete, if the corresponding billing document is complete, or what the
rejection status is.
Incompletion Log
Choose
More   Edit   Incompletion Log
to display the incompletion log. It lists data that is missing in the sales document,
but necessary for further processing. The system might let you save an incomplete sales document, but subsequent functions
can often only be carried out if the data in the original sales document is complete. The data needed to process subsequent
functions is defined by your system administrator for each sales document type.
For example, for a sales quotation, you must enter a validity period. If you do not enter the validity period, this field is displayed
in the incompletion log, and you might not be able to further process the sales quotation. Whereas if the payment terms are
missing in a sales order, you can still create a delivery, but you cannot invoice your sales order.
App Extensibility: Create, Change, or Display Sales Documents
As a key user, you can extend the following apps according to your business needs:
Create Sales Inquiries, Change Sales Inquiries, Display Sales Inquiries
Create Sales Quotations - VA21, Change Sales Quotations - VA22, Display Sales Quotations - VA23
Create Sales Orders - VA01, Change Sales Orders - VA02, Display Sales Orders - VA03
Create Sales Orders Without Charge, Change Sales Orders Without Charge, Display Sales Orders Without Charge
Create Sales Contracts, Change Sales Contracts, Display Sales Contracts
Create Credit Memo Requests, Change Credit Memo Requests, Display Credit Memo Requests
Create Debit Memo Requests, Change Debit Memo Requests, Display Debit Memo Requests
Features
You can extend these apps in the Custom Fields app.
In the app, you can enable usage of your custom fields under UIs and Reports for the data sources Create, Change, or Display Sales
Documents (Header) and Create, Change, or Display Sales Documents (Item).
After enabling the custom fields, they are displayed on the following user interface (UI) elements of the apps:
UI Element
Business Context
Custom fields tab in header details
Sales: Sales Document
Custom fields tab in item details
Sales: Sales Document Item
Restrictions
You can add a maximum of 170 extension fields to the custom fields tab on either header or item level.

---

Related Information
Key User Extensibility
Custom Fields
Process Extensibility for Sales Documents and Billing Documents
Business Add-Ins (BAdIs) for Sales Documents
Import Sales Documents
App ID: F6192
With this app, you as an internal sales representative can navigate to various sales document import apps (for creating sales
documents from spreadsheets) and view all your imports.
Terms
An import is created for each file that you import on the first page of a sales document import app. An import contains one or more
import items. Each import item (with a temporary document ID) can be seen as a sales document creation request.
Key Features
You can use this app to do the following:
Have quick access to sales document import apps (for example, Import Sales Orders).
Gain an overview of all your imports
You can view all imports regarding their overall processing status, sales document category, import time, and the number of
successful and failed creations.
Navigate to import details in the respective sales document import app
You can branch to an import to view its details in the respective sales document import app. For example, after you choose an
import for sales orders, you can navigate to the Import Sales Orders app and view import details (including the creation status
and the application log of individual import items).
Set an import as completed
When an import contains errors (indicating that document creation has failed or partially failed) but you don't want to continue
with further processing, you can manually complete the import.
Import Processing Status
The following table describes the processing status that each import can have:
 Note
You can view your imports only. The imports created by others are not visible to you.
 Note
You can also set failed import items as completed in the respective sales document import app. To do so, branch to an
import first to open its import items.

---

Processing
Status
Description
Possible Follow-up Operation
In process
Your file data is being processed.
Wait and check sales document creation results later.
Contains
errors
Your file data contains errors.
Sales document creation has failed or partially failed. For
example, you attempted to create two sales documents from your
import, but only one sales document is successfully created.
You can do the following:
Revise the data in your file and perform a
corrective import in the respective sales
document import app (for example, Import
Sales Orders).
Set the import or any failed import item as
completed, if you don't want to continue with
further processing.
Completed
Sales documents have been created from your file.
Open other apps for further document processing.
Manually
Completed
An import takes on this status when the following conditions are
met:
You have set at least one import item as completed.
Sales document creation is already successful for the
other import items (if any).
Supported Device Types
Desktop
Tablet
FAQ for Sales Document Import Apps
You can create sales documents from spreadsheets. What sales documents and spreadsheet types are supported?
The table lists the sales documents that can be created from spreadsheets. Note that only a limited number of sales document types
are supported.
Sales Document
Sales Document Category
Example Sales Document Type
Creation with Reference
Sales quotation
Quotation (B)
QT
Sales scheduling agreement
Scheduling Agreement (E)
LZ
Sales contract
Contract (G)
CQ
Sales order
Order (C)
OR
The Import Sales Orders app
supports creation with reference
to sales quotations and sales
contracts.
Sales order without charge
Order w/o Charge (I)
CBFD
The Import Sales Orders
Without Charge app supports
creation with reference to sales
quotations, returns orders, or
sales orders without charge.

---

Sales Document
Sales Document Category
Example Sales Document Type
Creation with Reference
Credit memo request
Credit Memo Request (K)
Only CR, RK, and CMR4 are
supported.
The Import Credit Memo
Requests app supports creation
with reference to sales orders
and invoices:
Sales orders and
invoices can be
referenced for document
type CR.
Only invoices can be
referenced for document
types RK and CMR4.
Debit memo request
Debit Memo Request (L)
Only DR, CBII, and DMR4 are
supported.
The Import Debit Memo
Requests app supports creation
with reference to sales orders
and invoices:
Sales orders and
invoices can be
referenced for document
type DR.
Only invoices can be
referenced for document
types CBII and DMR4.
Returns order
Returns (H)
Only CBAR
The Import Customer Returns
app supports creation with
reference to sales orders, sales
orders without charge, and
invoices.
The spreadsheets can be local Microsoft Excel (*.xlsx) files, or web-based Google Sheets or Microsoft Excel files on Google Drive
(requiring Google Workspace integration). To integrate your system with Google Workspace, see Integrating SAP S/4HANA with Google
Workspace.
What are the technical requirements (for example, cell format) on your spreadsheet for a successful import?
 Note
Only returns orders of
document type CBAR can be
referenced to create sales
orders without charge of
document type SD2.
 Note
Document type RK requires
creation with reference.
 Note
Document type CBII
requires creation with
reference.

---

Ensure that the sales document data sheet meets the following requirements:
The cell format is “text” (instead of “number”, “general”, or others) by default. If you use other cell formats, the import may fail,
especially for quantity, amount, date, time, and date/time fields.
The leftmost field of the field name row (row 4 by default) is the temporary sales document ID (for example,
HEADER.SALESORDER).
Another row exists in between the field name row and your sales document data. Typically, the in-between row contains field
descriptions.
You can only import the fields (including required and optional ones) listed in the template. How to add an optional
field to the document data sheet?
By default, the document data sheet in the template contains all required fields and some optional fields. Complete the following steps
to add an optional field:
1. In the field list sheet, copy its field name (technical ID) and description.
2. In the sales document data sheet, insert a new column, unhide the field name row (row 4 by default), paste the field name and
description to the column.
You must enter keys for non-description fields. How to find the keys for such fields?
A non-description field cannot contain free texts (for example, those you enter as customer reference). Enter keys for non-description
fields. For example, if an order reason has been configured as "003 Free-of-Charge sample" in your configuration environment, and you
want to include this order reason, enter 003 as the order reason.
To query possible key values of these fields, follow either of the following ways:
Open the app for managing particular sales documents (for example, the Manage Sales Orders – Version 2 app), switch to the
edit mode, and open the value help of the target field.
Open the app for displaying particular sales documents (for example, the Display Sales Orders - VA03 app), choose
More
GUI Actions and Settings   Settings   Interaction Design    Visualization
, and enable "Show drop down lists with keys".
The quick demo shows how to find key values for non-description fields (taking the Import Sales Orders app as an example).
 Tip
Note the following when you enter a number in your file:
By default, the decimal point (.) must be used as the decimal separator and thousand separators are not supported.
If you change the cell format to "number" and customize the separator settings of your spreadsheet (for example, enabling
the decimal comma (,)), you can enter numbers based on your custom settings.
After you upload a file to the app, the decimal separators in your preview always use the decimal point (.), regardless of the
type of separators used in your file.

---

Open this video in a new window
The field list sheet contains two sales document item number fields. Which one should I use for an import?
The sales document item number is required for an import. Two item fields exist in the field list sheet in the import templates of the
following sales documents:
Sales quotations
Sales scheduling agreements
Sales orders
Sales orders without charge
One is for automatic number assignment and the other for manual number assignment, as shown in the following table. You must use
one of them for an import.
Field Description
Example Field ID (for Sales Order)
Remarks
Item (Temporary ID)
ITEM.SALESORDERITEM
Enter a temporary item number for automatic number
assignment.
During document creation, the system will generate item
numbers based on the following:
Numerical order of the temporary item numbers in
your file
Item number increment defined in the
configuration activity Configure Sales
Document Types
The item numbers generated by the system may differ
from the temporary item numbers entered in your file.
Item
ITEM.SLSDOCITEMEXTERNALASSIGNMENTID
Enter an item number for manual number assignment.
The system will generate item numbers exactly as they
are entered in your file during document creation.
 Note
The two item number fields cannot coexist in the document data sheet.

---

You can specify the product, customer material, and GTIN (EAN/UPC) fields in your file. What’s the processing logic
for these fields during an import?
The import is based on the given product, or on a product determined from your given customer material, GTIN (EAN/UPC), or
combination of GTIN (EAN/UPC) and unit of measure (UoM). If you do not enter a product in your file, you must enter a customer
material or GTIN (EAN/UPC) for the system to perform product determination. A successful product determination requires that the
customer material or GTIN (EAN/UPC) has been properly maintained in master data.
The system can determine a product from GTIN (EAN/UPC) if finding a unique product in product master data for any of the following:
The given GTIN (EAN/UPC)
The given combination of GTIN (EAN/UPC) and UoM (if a UoM already entered in your file)
How to import price elements?
You can tune a price by importing header or item price element data (see Pricing and Conditions). The import may change an existing
price element (derived from your pricing procedure) or add a new one when the sales document is created.
To import price elements, do as follows in the sales document data sheet:
1. In field names, replace <CONDTYPE> with your condition type ID (for example,
ITEM_PRICE.PR00.CONDITIONRATEVALUE).
2. (Optional) For a better view, add the condition type ID to field descriptions (for example, "PR00 Condition Amount").
3. Enter price element data.
Pay attention to the following notes when setting price element fields:
For percentage-based calculation, enter a numeric value (for example, 5 or −5) in the Condition Amount or Ratio field, and
leave the other three fields empty. The system will treat it as 5% or −5%.
For a new price element with amount-based calculation, if you only specify the Condition Amount or Ratio and no condition
record has been maintained, the system will default the currency to transaction currency of the sales document, pricing unit to 1,
and unit of measure to the sales unit of the product.
The Condition Amount or Ratio supports the decimal mark (.).
The quick demo shows how to import price elements (taking the Import Sales Orders app as an example).
 Note
A Global Trade Item Number (GTIN), International Article Number (EAN), or Universal Product Code (UPC) is an internationally
standardized number that uniquely identifies a product relating to a UoM or type of packaging. As an umbrella term, GTIN
accommodates the numbering standards of EAN, UPC, among others.
 Note
When you use a particular import app (for example, Import Sales Orders) to create documents with reference and have specified a
reference item (that is, preceding item), you can leave the product-related fields (product, customer material, and GTIN (EAN/UPC))
empty. The system ignores the product and GTIN in your file and copies these fields from the preceding item. You can specify the
customer material if needed.

---

Open this video in a new window
How to import texts?
You can import header or item texts (see Texts in Sales).
To import texts, do as follows in the sales document data sheet:
1. Replace <TEXTID> with your text type ID (for example, HEADER_TEXT.0001.LONGTEXT).
For a language-specific text, you need to additionally replace <LANG> with the language key (for example,
HEADER_TEXT.0001.LONGTEXT.EN).
2. For a better view, include the text type description and language (if any) in the field description. For example, you can enter
"Shipping Instructions" or "Shipping Instructions (English)" as field description.
3. Enter text data.
The quick demo shows how to import texts (taking the Import Sales Orders app as an example).
 Note
If you do not specify the language, the system logon language will be defaulted for the text.

---

Open this video in a new window
How many records can be imported at a time?
A maximum of 1,000 records is recommended per import.
Related Information
Import Sales Orders
Import Sales Scheduling Agreements
Import Sales Contracts
Import Sales Quotations
Import Sales Orders Without Charge
Import Credit Memo Requests
Import Debit Memo Requests
Import Customer Returns
Change Sales Documents
App IDs: VA22, VA42, VA32, VA02
With this app, you can change a specific type of sales document.
For more information on the features that are available, check the documentation for the relevant sales document category.
Related Information
Change Sales Quotations - VA22
Change Sales Contracts - VA42
Change Sales Scheduling Agreements - VA32
Change Sales Orders - VA02
Change Sales Orders Without Charge - VA02
Change Credit Memo Requests
Change Debit Memo Requests
App Extensibility: Create, Change, or Display Sales Documents
As a key user, you can extend the following apps according to your business needs:
Create Sales Inquiries, Change Sales Inquiries, Display Sales Inquiries
Create Sales Quotations - VA21, Change Sales Quotations - VA22, Display Sales Quotations - VA23
Create Sales Orders - VA01, Change Sales Orders - VA02, Display Sales Orders - VA03
Create Sales Orders Without Charge, Change Sales Orders Without Charge, Display Sales Orders Without Charge

---

Create Sales Contracts, Change Sales Contracts, Display Sales Contracts
Create Credit Memo Requests, Change Credit Memo Requests, Display Credit Memo Requests
Create Debit Memo Requests, Change Debit Memo Requests, Display Debit Memo Requests
Features
You can extend these apps in the Custom Fields app.
In the app, you can enable usage of your custom fields under UIs and Reports for the data sources Create, Change, or Display Sales
Documents (Header) and Create, Change, or Display Sales Documents (Item).
After enabling the custom fields, they are displayed on the following user interface (UI) elements of the apps:
UI Element
Business Context
Custom fields tab in header details
Sales: Sales Document
Custom fields tab in item details
Sales: Sales Document Item
Restrictions
You can add a maximum of 170 extension fields to the custom fields tab on either header or item level.
Related Information
Key User Extensibility
Custom Fields
Process Extensibility for Sales Documents and Billing Documents
Business Add-Ins (BAdIs) for Sales Documents
Mass Change of Sales Documents
App ID: F5091
With this app, you can make changes to multiple sales documents at a time. The changes are scheduled in the form of a job which runs
in the background. For failed jobs, you can repeat changes individually or schedule a new job.
Key Features
You can make changes to sales documents of the following categories:
Sales orders
Sales quotations
Sales contracts
Customer returns
Sales scheduling agreements
Sales orders without charge

---

Credit memo requests
Debit memo requests
You can use the Mass Change of Sales Documents app to do the following:
Search for sales documents by various criteria, such as sold-to party, ship-to party, sales organization, and so on.
The profit center search attribute exists for all sales document categories, but only on item level.
The WBS (work breakdown structure) element search attribute exists on item level for all sales document categories except
sales contracts, sales scheduling agreements, and sales quotations. The WBS element describes tasks or subtasks in the
project to be performed within a defined time period.
Specify what you want to change, such as the partner on header or item level. The app has multiple options for changes,
depending on the sales document category.
For example, you can change sales orders using the following header options:
Change header data
Change header partner
Remove header partner
Reject
Set billing block
Remove billing block
Set delivery block
Remove delivery block
Update prices
Change the schedule line data for sales orders and sales orders without charge using the following options:
Set requested delivery date
Set schedule line category
Set delivery block
Remove delivery block
Access and make changes across all categories of sales documents at once. For example, you can make changes to multiple
sales orders and sales quotations at the same time.
Previously Scheduled Jobs
 Note
When you apply a change to multiple sales documents with different values for any of the fields, the system informs you
about these differences. If you choose to apply your changes, the field values in all the documents are changed to the new
values.
For example, you want to update the header data for sales orders 29871 and 29872, which currently have different values for
the sales group. You choose to change the header data and update the sales group. After you apply your changes, both
sales orders contain the same updated sales group value.
The same principle applies to item changes.

---

For your previously scheduled jobs, you can do the following:
View your jobs. A job can be in process, completed, or failed.
Reschedule your failed jobs or mark them as completed.
Multiple Address Handling
If multiple address handling is active in your system, you can choose from multiple addresses per customer in the value help when you
change a partner. The system lists all customer addresses in the value help. When you change a partner across multiple documents,
make sure that the address you choose is allowed for the partner in these documents. Otherwise, the partner change may fail or
partially fail.
For more information about multiple address handling, see Multiple Address Handling in SD Documents Using SAP Business Partner.
Video: Mass Change of Sales Documents (English Only)
Watch the following video to get an overview of the Mass Change of Sales Documents app:
Open this video in a new window
Supported Device Types
Desktop
Related Information
Mass Change of Sales Docs: Jobs Complete
 Note
The addresses allowed for a particular partner function are related to the address determination configuration in your configuration
environment. For more information, see Address Determination in SD Documents.

---

App Extensibility: Mass Change of Sales Documents (Key User)
Monitor Mass Changes of Sales Documents
App Extensibility: Mass Change of Sales Documents (Key User)
As a key user, you can extend the Mass Change of Sales Documents app according to your business needs.
Custom Fields
With the Custom Fields app, you can create and maintain custom fields that you can use to enhance applications. If you have created
custom fields for other apps for sales documents, you should also enable usage of these custom fields for each sales document
category that is used in the Mass Change of Sales Documents app.
Note that unlike other apps, there is usually no need to create custom fields specifically for the Mass Change of Sales Documents
app. You use this app to change existing sales documents and these sales documents might already contain custom fields. Therefore,
you might want to enable usage of these fields so that you can change them.
You can add fields to the following UI elements using key user adaptation:
Business Context
UI Technology
Navigation Path
UI Element Type
Sales: Sales Document
Fiori
List of jobs > job details > job
data
Fields and field groups
Sales: Sales Document Item
Fiori
List of jobs > job details > job
data
Fields and field groups
These fields are automatically displayed in the Monitor Mass Changes of Sales Documents app as well.
Business users can display fields that you have enabled in the Custom Fields app. The fields that you enable for this app are included
in the personalization options for business users or displayed by default for the following UI elements:
Business Context
UI Technology
Navigation Path
UI Element Type
Sales: Sales Document
Fiori
Change job for a sales document
category > filters
Filter
Change job for a sales document
category > jobs table > table
column
Table column
Change job for a sales document
category > change > additional
fields
Fields
Sales: Sales Document Item
Fiori
Change job for a sales document
category > filters
Filter
Change job for a sales document
category > jobs table > table
Table column
Example
You have created custom fields for the Create Sales Orders - VA01 app. Therefore, you also enable usage of these fields for the
mass change of sales orders.

---

Business Context
UI Technology
Navigation Path
UI Element Type
column
Change job for a sales document
category > change > additional
fields
Fields
For more information, see:
Creating Custom Fields
Adding Extension Fields to Apps with Different UI-Technologies
Related Information
Key User Extensibility
Creating Extension Items and Transporting Them
Mass Change of Sales Docs: Jobs Complete
Technical Name: SD_SLSDOC_MASS_CHG_REQ_COMPLETED
Consuming App: Mass Change of Sales Documents
End users are informed about the situations they’re responsible for by notifications on SAP Fiori launchpad. They can also choose to
get additional emails.
Template used for Situation Handling that informs specific members of your sales organization and the user who triggered the mass
change about the job status.
For background information about the Situation Handling framework, see the Product Assistance for Situation Handling.
Business Value
As a configuration expert for business processes (SAP business role SAP_BR_BPC_EXPERT), you can use this template for the
following situation:
You want the user who triggered the mass change or specific members of your sales organization to be informed when a mass change
job is finished.
Users can trigger mass changes for different document categories in their jobs.
Using this standard template, users can be notified automatically about the status of finished jobs.
Default Settings
The template comes with predefined settings. For the settings that aren't visible or self-explanatory, you can find information in the
following sections. For generic information about how to configure situations based on this template, refer to the documentation of the
Manage Situation Types app with which you can display and use the template.
For more information, see Manage Situation Types.

---

Situation Trigger Object and Anchor Object
These technical settings define for which object a situation is displayed (anchor object) and the object based on which a situation is
triggered (trigger object):
The event-based situation is triggered when a job is finished (for example, the status is set as completed or failed).
Object Type
Technical Name
Description
Trigger Object
SalesDocumenMassChangeRequest
Sales Document Mass Change Request
CDS View for Trigger
Object
I_SlsDocMassChangeReqSituation
CDS view that contains the information about the Mass Change
Job Details
Trigger Type
Trigger type
Anchor Object
SalesDocumentMassChangeRequest
Sales Document Mass Change Request
CDS View for Anchor
Object
I_SlsDocMassChangeReqSituation
CDS view that contains the information about the Mass Change
Job Details
Conditions
You can filter conditions for all fields that exist in the CDS view.
You can use the following filters to define your own conditions when you create situation types:
Filter
Description
Job Name
Name of the job for the mass change activity
Job Status
Status of the job (for example, completed or failed)
Document
Category
The document categories for mass changes are as follows:
Quotation (B)
Order (C)
Scheduling Agreement (E)
Scheduling Agreement with External Service Agent (F)
Contract (G)
Returns (H)
Order w/o Charge (I)
Credit Memo Request (K)
Debit Memo Request (L)
Entity Level
Entity level of the sales document which can have the following values:
Header (H)
Item (I)
Schedule line (S)

---

Filter
Description
Action ID
Action ID value for the mass change. For example, HDR001 for header changes in SD Documents, HDR002 for header
partner changes, etc.
For more information, see Conditions.
Situation Display
When situations occur, users are informed about them by various texts, such as in-app situation messages or notifications on SAP Fiori
launchpad. In this section, you can see all preconfigured texts.
For more information, see Situation Display.
For more information, see Translate Situation Types.
Recipients
In this section, you see the predefined settings for determining who is responsible for a situation instance. Based on these, you can
define who receives a notification when a situation instance is triggered (if enabled) or who sees the instance in the My Situations app.
You can define notification recipients by team, by rule, or by a combination of both. In this template, the determination of the notification
recipients is predefined as follows:
By rule
The rules for notifying the job creator determine that if a mass change job is completed, the user who triggered the job is
notified.
By team
Notifications are only sent to the members of the Sales team category. You can choose specific members of the Sales team
category defined in the Manage Teams and Responsibilities app. You can also use the predefined filters such as sales
organization, customer group, and sales document type to narrow down the recipients. You can also select specific member
functions and assign it to the Sales team category. For example, Sales Document Approver – Level 1, as additional filters.
For more information, see Recipients.
Situation Monitoring
Monitor Instances: Monitoring (the tracking of changes to situation instances) isn't enabled by default for situation templates. When
you copy the template to create a situation type, you need to enable this option if you want to capture data for this situation type and
enable the creation of business situation events. You can view the data in the Monitor Situations app.
 Note
Ensure that the Aggregate Notifications checkbox, which determines whether notifications are sent on a per situation instance
basis or as one aggregated notification, is deselected. Otherwise, you may not be able to navigate to details about specific sales
contract items.
 Note
When you copy the template and adapt it to your needs, you can define the notification settings and change all text elements in this
section. After making the changes in the original language, please remember to translate these changes into the other languages
that you want to use. The template comes with translations that can be changed directly when you copy the template.

---

Related Information
Situation Handling
Key Concepts
Monitor Mass Changes of Sales Documents
With this app, you can search for all the jobs created in the Mass Change of Sales Documents app.
You can display job details, reschedule failed jobs, and mark failed jobs as completed.
Key Features
You can search jobs of the following sales document categories:
Sales orders
Sales quotations
Sales contracts
Customer returns
Sales scheduling agreements
Sales orders without charge
Credit memo requests
Debit memo requests
You can use the Monitor Mass Changes of Sales Documents app to do the following:
Search for jobs by various criteria, such as job status, user who created the job, start date, and so on.
View job details.
Reschedule failed jobs. After rescheduling a failed job, the current failed job is set to completed and the new job is in process.
Mark failed jobs as completed. You can no longer change the job status or any other details after marking the job as completed.
Supported Device Types
Desktop
Related Information
Mass Change of Sales Documents
Display Sales Documents
App IDs: VA23, VA43, VA33, VA03
With this app, you can display a specific type of sales document.

---

For more information on the features that are available, check the documentation for the relevant sales document category.
Related Information
Display Sales Quotations - VA23
Display Sales Contracts - VA43
Display Sales Scheduling Agreements - VA33
Display Sales Orders - VA03
Display Sales Orders Without Charge - VA03
Display Credit Memo Requests
Display Debit Memo Requests
App Extensibility: Create, Change, or Display Sales Documents
As a key user, you can extend the following apps according to your business needs:
Create Sales Inquiries, Change Sales Inquiries, Display Sales Inquiries
Create Sales Quotations - VA21, Change Sales Quotations - VA22, Display Sales Quotations - VA23
Create Sales Orders - VA01, Change Sales Orders - VA02, Display Sales Orders - VA03
Create Sales Orders Without Charge, Change Sales Orders Without Charge, Display Sales Orders Without Charge
Create Sales Contracts, Change Sales Contracts, Display Sales Contracts
Create Credit Memo Requests, Change Credit Memo Requests, Display Credit Memo Requests
Create Debit Memo Requests, Change Debit Memo Requests, Display Debit Memo Requests
Features
You can extend these apps in the Custom Fields app.
In the app, you can enable usage of your custom fields under UIs and Reports for the data sources Create, Change, or Display Sales
Documents (Header) and Create, Change, or Display Sales Documents (Item).
After enabling the custom fields, they are displayed on the following user interface (UI) elements of the apps:
UI Element
Business Context
Custom fields tab in header details
Sales: Sales Document
Custom fields tab in item details
Sales: Sales Document Item
Restrictions
You can add a maximum of 170 extension fields to the custom fields tab on either header or item level.
Related Information
Key User Extensibility
Custom Fields

---

Process Extensibility for Sales Documents and Billing Documents
Business Add-Ins (BAdIs) for Sales Documents
Manage Sales Documents
App ID: F8712
With this app, you can manage various sales documents in a centralized manner. This includes listing sales documents, making
changes to sales documents, and exporting document data.
Key Features
The app displays sales documents on header, item, and schedule line levels. Currently only the following sales documents are
supported:
Sales orders
Sales orders without charge
Credit memo requests
Debit memo requests
You can use this app to do the following:
Display, sort, and filter a list of sales documents
Make changes to one or more sales documents directly in the list
The following actions are available:
Set and remove delivery blocks
Set and remove billing blocks
Set and remove rejection reasons
Check credit
Update prices
Create sales documents without reference
Create sales orders with reference
Navigate to the corresponding sales document app
By choosing the arrow icon in each row, you can navigate to the respective sales document app (for example, Manage Sales
Orders - Version 2 app).
Export document data
 Note
For optimal performance, we recommend that you apply filters to narrow your search results. If you have maintained a default value
for the sales organization, distribution channel, division, sold-to party, ship-to party, sales office, or sales group in the user settings of
the SAP Fiori launchpad, the system applies the default value as a filter in the app.

---

You can export document data to a spreadsheet or PDF file. The list is exported as displayed, that is, your column settings and
sorting are kept.
Share the current page of the app via email or Microsoft Teams
Functional Details
Searching for Sales Documents
You can perform a fuzzy search on sales documents by entering a document number or other attributes (for example, customer
reference) into the search field.
In addition, you can search for sales documents as follows:
Apply basic filters, such as the document number, sales document type, product, and sold-to party.
Apply additional filters by adapting the filter bar. For example, you can filter by order reason, reference document, delivery block,
and many more criteria.
The app also offers dozens of status filters. These statuses are available on header or item level:
Header-level status fields are available in the header data of a sales document. When you open a sales document (for example,
in the Manage Sales Orders - Version 2 app), you can find them in header data.
Item-level status fields are available in the item data of a sales document. When you open a sales document, you can find them
in the status data of each individual item.
In the Manage Sales Documents app, these status fields exist in the following forms:
Header-Level Status Fields
Form
Meaning
Example
Differentiated by "All Items"
Cumulative status of all items
Rejection Status (All Items): Evaluates all items. The status is
"everything rejected" if all items are rejected.
Differentiated by "Header"
Status of the header only
Delivery Block Status (Header): Evaluates the document header
only. It does not take into account whether any delivery block exists
on item level.
Incompletion Status (Header): Indicates whether the header data is
complete.
No differentiator
Overall status of the entire
document
Credit Status: Indicates the credit status of the document. It is related
to credit control (by SAP Credit Management) and payment card
authorization.
Overall Block Status: Evaluates the credit block status, delivery
block status, and billing block status.
Overall Supply Block Status: Evaluates whether a supply block has
been placed on the document (for example, due to a credit block) and
items. The status is "blocked" when the document or all items are
supply-blocked. The status is "partially blocked" when a supply block
exists in one or more items (not all items) but does not exist on
document level.
Item-Level Status Fields

---

Form
Meaning
Example
Differentiated by "Item" (majority
of cases)
Status of each individual item
Rejection Status (Item)
Incompletion Status (Item)
No differentiator (rare cases)
Supply Block Status
Delivery Confirmation Status
Adapting Your View
By default, the sales documents are sorted first by document date and then by document number in descending order. You can make
the following view settings:
Select the columns that you want to display
Sort the displayed data
Use page variants to save and load custom filters and column layouts that you have created
Notes About Mass Change to Sales Documents
When you make changes to multiple selected objects (that is, documents, items, or schedule lines) in the list, the action may not be
successful for all. Here are some possible reasons:
The document is being processed by another user.
The action is not available due to the document status.
For example, you cannot set a delivery block on a document that has been rejected or completed.
The action is not relevant for the object.
For example, delivery block removal does not apply to a document item that does not contain any delivery block.
In addition, credit checks may not be relevant to all selected documents. When you manually run a credit check in this app, the system
evaluates the customer's credit data against the predefined check rules in SAP Credit Management. The check is only carried out for
documents that meet the following requirements:
SAP Credit Management has been set up for Sales (see Video Tutorial: How to Enable SAP Credit Management for Sales).
The credit status of the document is not approved.
For more information, see Credit Check.
Supported Device Types
Desktop
Smartphone
App Extensibility: Manage Sales Documents
As a key user, you can extend the Manage Sales Documents app according to your business needs.

---

Custom Fields
With the Custom Fields app, you can create and maintain custom fields that you can use to enhance applications. You can add fields
to the following UI elements using key user adaptation:
Business Context
UI Technology
Navigation Path
UI Element Type
Sales: Sales Document
Fiori
Sales documents tab
Sales document items
tab
Schedule lines tab
List, filter
Sales: Sales Document Item
Fiori
Sales document items
tab
Schedule lines tab
List, filter
Related Information
Extensibility
List Sales Documents
App IDs: VA05, VA15
Use
With this app, you can list sales documents of a specific type. You can search for sales documents according to your filter criteria and
display them in the list. From the list, you can make changes to selected sales documents or navigate to related features for a selected
sales document.
Key Features
You can use this app to do the following:
Search for sales documents as well as display and filter a list of sales documents in the system.
Change certain fields for example, plant for multiples sales documents.
Navigate to the Manage Sales Orders - VA02 app.
Navigate to the process flow, status information, and related master data. For example, product master for a particular sales
document.
Export the list of sales documents to local files. For example, spreadsheets.
 Note
To list sales documents for resource-related intercompany billing, enter order type SO03 and execute.

---

Supported Device Types
Desktop
Related Information
List Sales Orders - VA05
List Inquiries - VA15
List Sales Orders
List Sales Orders Without Charge
List Incomplete Sales Documents
App ID: F2430
Use
With this app, you can search for incomplete sales documents according to your filter criteria and display them in a list. From the list,
you can navigate to related features to display and complete the missing data of the selected sales document.
You can also use preconfigured tiles to search for incomplete sales inquiries, sales contracts, sales quotations, sales orders without
charge, debit memo requests, and credit memo requests specifically. These tiles automatically direct you to the List Incomplete Sales
Documents app, in which the SD document category is pre-defined depending on the tile you selected.
Key Features
Search for incomplete sales documents using a free text search
 Note
The following SD document categories are supported for this app:
Inquiry
Quotation
Item Proposal
Order
Contract
Return
Order Without Charge
Credit Memo Request
Debit Memo Request
Alternatively, you can use the following variants of the List Incomplete Sales Documents app to access the specific
business objects directly:
List Incomplete Sales Inquiries
List Incomplete Sales Orders Without Charge

---

Search for incomplete sales documents based on one or more filter criteria
Create a variant for the current filter selection and save it for later reference
Restore the default filter variant
Sort incomplete sales documents in the results list
Restore the default sort order
Hide or show columns in the list
Restore the default column selection
Group incomplete sales documents in the results list
Navigate to an incomplete sales document’s incompletion log, either to display or to change data, by selecting a row in the list
Navigate to the sales document object page to display all the relevant details for the sales document
Supported Device Types
Desktop
Tablet
App Extensibility: List Incomplete Sales Documents
You can extend the List Incomplete Sales Documents app according to your business needs.
Features
Key users can extend the app in the Custom Fields app using the business context Sales: Sales Document.
List Incomplete Credit Memo Requests
List Incomplete Debit Memo Requests
List Incomplete Sales Contracts
List Incomplete Sales Quotations
 Note
We strongly recommend limiting your search results by making use of various filters to avoid performance issues.
 Note
SAP delivers a standard filter variant.
 Note
SAP delivers a default sort order.
 Note
SAP delivers a default column selection.

---

You can enable usage of your custom fields for the data source Incomplete Sales Documents in the UIs and Reports section of the
custom field maintenance and publish the custom fields.
Business users can display fields that you have enabled in the Custom Fields app. The fields that you enable for this app are included
in the personalization options for business users for the following UI elements:
UI Element
Business Context
Incomplete Sales Documents (Worklist)
Sales: Sales Document
Related Information
Custom Fields App and Custom Logic App
Key User Extensibility
List Sales Documents by Object Status
App ID: F2714
Use
With this app, you can search for sales documents and sales document items with active system or user statuses according to your
filter criteria and display them in a list. From the list, you can navigate to the status overview screen of the selected sales document or
sales document item in classic SAP GUI applications to display and/or change the statuses of the current business object and view the
permitted business processes. You can also branch directly from the status overview screen into related applications to further process
the documents or document items.
Key Features
Search for sales documents and sales document items with active system or user status using a free text search
Search for sales documents and sales document items with active system or user status based on one or more filter criteria
 Note
The following SD document categories are supported for this app:
Inquiry
Quotation
Order
Contract
Return
Order Without Charge
Credit Memo Request
Debit Memo Request
 Note

---

Create a variant for the current filter selection and save it for later reference
Restore the default filter variant
Sort sales documents and sales document items with active system or user status in the results list
Restore the default sort order
Hide or show columns in the list
Restore the default column selection
Group sales documents and sales document items with active system or user status in the results list
Navigate to the status overview screen of a sales document or sales document item with active system or user status by
selecting a row in the list
In the status overview screen, display the currently active system status for the selected sales document or sales document item
or all system statuses that were at one time active for the object
In the status overview screen, activate and/or deactivate user statuses for the selected sales document or sales document item
In the status overview screen, display the permitted business processes defined for the selected sales document or sales
document item
Navigate to the sales document and product object pages to display all the relevant details for the sales document and product
Supported Device Types
Desktop
Tablet
App Extensibility: List Sales Documents by Object Status
You can extend the List Sales Documents by Object Status app according to your business needs.
Features
We strongly recommend limiting your search results by making use of various filters to avoid performance issues.
 Note
SAP delivers a standard filter variant.
 Note
SAP delivers a default sort order.
 Note
SAP delivers a default column selection.
 Note
There is always only one status with status number active. Pushing its radio button activates a user status, and the
previously active status is deactivated.

---

Key users can extend the app in the Custom Fields app using the following business contexts:
Sales: Sales Document
Sales: Sales Document Item
You can enable usage of your custom fields for the data source Sales Documents by Object Status in the UIs and Reports section of
the custom field maintenance and publish the custom fields.
Business users can display fields that you have enabled in the Custom Fields app. The fields that you enable for this app are included
in the personalization options for business users for the following UI elements:
UI Element
Business Context
Sales Document Worklist
Sales: Sales Document
Sales Document Worklist
Sales: Sales Document Item
Related Information
Custom Fields App and Custom Logic App
Key User Extensibility
Manage Sales Documents with Customer-Expected Price
App ID: F2713
Use
This app lists sales document items that are locked due to discrepancies between the net price and the customer-expected price until
the discrepancy is resolved.
You can either accept or decline the customer-expected price, or you can reject the sales document item:
If you accept the customer-expected price, you can manually adjust, for example, the value of the net price within the app.
If you decline the customer-expected price for a sales document item, the system releases it for further document processing
with the net price.
If you reject the item, the item is not processed any further. You can use this action, for example, if you cannot agree on a net
price and the customer does not want the item anymore.
Additionally, you can display information about customer contacts that is relevant for the selected sales document item and navigate to
related apps to display and change the corresponding sales document.
 Note
You can also decline the customer-expected price for multiple items at once.
 Note
You can also reject multiple items at once.

---

Key Features
Search for sales document items in which discrepancies between the customer-expected price and the net price have occurred
by using a free text search
Search for sales document items in which discrepancies between the customer-expected price and the net price have occurred
based on one or more filter criteria
Create a variant for the current filter selection and save it for later reference
Restore the default filter variant
Sort sales document items in the results list
Restore the default sort order
Hide or show columns in the list
Restore the default column selection
Group sales document items in the results list
Restore the default grouping
Display information about the customer contact that is relevant for the selected sales document item based on the sales
document header
Accept the customer-expected price for the selected sales document item and manually adjust, for example, the net price or an
existing discount or surcharge.
Decline the customer-expected price for the selected sales document item, so that the respective sales document is released for
subsequent document processing with the net price value
Reject the selected sales document item
Navigate to the sales document object page and product master data to display all the relevant details for the sales document
and product
Supported Device Types
Desktop
Tablet
 Note
We strongly recommend limiting your search results by making use of various filters to avoid performance issues.
 Note
SAP delivers a standard filter variant.
 Note
SAP delivers a default column selection.
 Note
When you reject a sales document item, its status is set to completed, and the system prompts you to select a reason for
rejection.

---

Related Information
Customer-Expected Price
Approval Workflows for Sales Documents
Set up workflows to have sales documents approved before they can be processed.
Use
In certain cases, it can make sense to make sure that a sales document is first approved by a sales manager before the internal sales
representative or returns and refund clerk can process it further. You could, for example, define that sales orders with a net value that is
higher than USD 1,000 or sales quotations for a specific customer always need to be sent to an approver.
You can either set up the entire approval workflow within your system (internal workflow), or you can connect your system to a workflow
you already use in another system (external workflow) and approve or reject the sales document with specific OData APIs for sales
documents.
You can set up approval workflows for the following sales document categories:
Sales quotations
Sales contracts
Sales orders
Sales orders without charge
Returns orders
Credit memo requests
Debit memo requests
Related Information
Approval Workflows in an External System
Approval Statuses and Authorizations
 Note
When you migrate data from other systems, your existing documents are treated in the same way as any other documents that are
not relevant for approvals during the migration. When you make changes to these documents after the migration, they are
processed like any other documents and might become relevant for approvals, depending on your setting.
 Tip
Make sure that all necessary steps for approval processes are taken.
You can find an overview of the process and the prerequisites for internal workflows here: Approval Workflows in Your System
For a detailed example of the entire process, see the following documentation: Setup Example: Approval Workflows in Your System
If you run into problems, see the following documentation: Troubleshooting

---

Approval Workflows in Your System
Send sales documents to an approver automatically.
The approval workflow involves two parties: The first one is the user who creates a document that needs to be approved. Depending on
the sales document category, this is usually an internal sales representative or a returns and refund clerk. This user is the approval
requester. The second one is the user who approves a document. This is usually a sales manager, also called approver here.
When you set up the process correctly in your system, it works as follows:
Sales Quotations, Sales Contracts, Sales Orders, Sales Orders Without Charge, Credit Memo Requests, and Debit
Memo Requests
Whenever an internal sales representative (that is, the approval requester) creates or changes a sales document and saves it, the
Business Add-In (BAdI) Approval Request Reasons for Sales Documents is called. The customer-specific BAdI implementation sets
an approval reason if the sales document is relevant for approvals. If the sales document is not relevant for approvals and the BAdI
doesn't set an approval reason, the system automatically sets the corresponding approval status (not relevant) and the document can
be processed as usual. If the sales document is relevant for approvals and the BAdI sets the approval reason, the system automatically
sets the corresponding approval status and approval request reason in the sales document header. It also blocks the sales document
for further processing (including the creation of subsequent documents). The approval requester can see the approval status and the
approval request reason in the document.
Any sales document with an approval request reason triggers a check for workflows. Depending on the defined order of workflows, the
corresponding workflow is started according to specific conditions. Again, it checks certain preconditions that the sales document must
match. Based on these preconditions, it finds the designated approver (usually a sales manager) for this specific sales document.
Returns Orders
For returns orders, the BAdI is called whenever a returns and refund clerk (that is, the approval requester) confirms the creation or
changes of a returns order. Depending on the app the returns and refund clerk uses, the confirmation is performed in different ways:
In the Manage Customer Returns app, a returns and refund clerk confirms by choosing Save and Release to release the
return for subsequent processing. Simply saving the returns order only saves the data and does not trigger the BAdI.
In the Create Customer Return app and Create Customer Return Without Reference - VA01 app, a returns and refund clerk
confirms by simply saving the returns order. However, if any of the returns order items has an approval block (which could be
assigned by the returns and refund clerk manually), the BAdI cannot be called when the returns order is saved. To trigger the
BAdI, first remove the approval block from all relevant items (by setting the Approval field to blank) and save the returns order
again.
All Sales Document Categories
The next part of the process works the same way for all sales document categories.
The approver receives a task in the My Inbox app. Three choices are offered:
The approver can release the document. The approval status of the document changes accordingly (released). The document
shouldn't be changed anymore, but subsequent documents can now be created.
The approver can reject the approval request, which leads to the rejection of the entire document. The approval status of the
document changes accordingly (rejected). If an approval requester makes changes to the document, the BAdI is called again,
 Note
The following figures mention the saving of sales documents. For returns orders, this always implies a confirmation.

---

and the approval process starts afresh.
The approver can send the document back to the approval requester for rework. The approval status of the document changes
accordingly (to be reworked).
The approval requester then receives a task in the My Inbox app. Two choices are offered:
The approval requester can let the approver know that a rework is not required. Again, the approver receives a task in
the My Inbox app. This can also be used when, for example, the approver asks the approval requester to simply check a
fact (such as calling the logistics department to ensure that the requested delivery date can be met).
The approval requester can adapt the document and save it. The BAdI is called, and the approval process starts afresh
(if the document is still relevant for approvals).
The following figure provides an overview of the approval workflow, starting with the creation of a sales document.
For information on the setup, see How to Set Up Approval Workflows in Your System.
For a detailed example of the entire setup, see Setup Example: Approval Workflows in Your System.
Related Information
Manage Sales Document Workflows
Approve or Rework a Sales Document
Troubleshooting
My Inbox
How to Set Up Approval Workflows in Your System
Set up workflows to have sales documents approved in your system.

---

To set up approval workflows for sales documents, you, as a configuration expert, must make specific settings. Internal workflows are
processed directly in your system, whereas external workflows can be set up to establish a connection to an external system using
APIs.
You set up internal approval workflows as follows:
1. Configuration Activity
Define at least one approval request reason. Then, assign these approval request reasons you defined to sales document
categories. These reasons are later displayed in sales documents that must be approved. They let the approval requester know
why these documents are relevant for approvals and thus blocked for editing and subsequent processing (such as the creation
of delivery or billing documents).
In your configuration environment, use the search function to open the following activity: Document Approvals.
For more information, see the configuration help in the configuration activity.
For more information about configuration activities, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
2. BAdI Implementation
To determine whether a sales document is relevant for approvals and should trigger a workflow, you implement and publish the
Business Add-In (BAdI) Approval Request Reasons for Sales Documents (SD_APM_SET_APPROVAL_REASON). This BAdI
is called whenever a sales document is saved. If a sales document is then considered relevant for approvals, the system sets
one of the approval request reasons that you defined in step 1 in the sales document header.
You can find this BAdI in the Custom Logic app, using the Sales: Sales Document business context.
For more information, see the BAdI documentation and example implementation in the Custom Logic app.
3. Team Member Definition
You define a team of type Sales and Billing (SALES) and category SALES in the Manage Teams and
Responsibilities app.
In the same app, you assign the required sales document approval functions, such as first and second level approver, to the
responsible team members.
These definitions make sure that the designated approvers are notified whenever a sales document needs to be approved.
To avoid situations in which the approval requester is also the designated approver of a workflow, use the latest workflow
version. If you use an older workflow version and a situation like that occurs, see Troubleshooting.
To create additional approval functions and function profiles, you can find and perform the following two configuration activities
in your configuration environment:
Define Functions
Define Function Profiles
For more information, see Responsibility Management.
For more information about configuration activities, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
Depending on the settings that you make in these apps and configuration activitites, you can set up approval workflows using
multiple levels (for example, with first, second, and third level approvers or more).
 Note
You must only make the following settings if, in the Manage Sales Document Workflows app, you want to designate
approvers by role. If you want to designate approvers directly by user, you can do so in this app when setting up the
workflow steps.

---

4. Workflow Configuration
You define and activate one or more workflows in the Manage Sales Document Workflows app. For more information, see
Manage Sales Document Workflows.
These workflows are triggered whenever the BAdI assigns an approval request reason to a sales document for an internal
workflow. With additional conditions, you can define in which cases a specific workflow should start (for example, you can define
that an approver of level 1 is to be notified when a specific approval request reason is set).
In addition, you must maintain specific authorizations. For more information, see Approval Statuses and Authorizations.
Optional: Use Responsibility Rules and Responsibility Contexts to Determine an Approver Dynamically
The setup described above facilitates determination of the approver through the assignment of specific business users or through roles
specified in the Manage Teams and Responsibilities app. You choose one of these options when you create the corresponding
workflow step in the Manage Sales Document Workflows app.
In addition, there is a third option available that enables the approver to be determined dynamically through use of custom responsibility
rules, responsibility contexts, and partner functions. When this approach has been implemented, the field for assigning a recipient via
role in the Manage Sales Document Workflows app contains the responsibility rule ID you created as an additional option that you
can select.
Note that this method involves implementing a second BAdI called Responsibility Rule. The custom responsibility rule ID is used as
the BAdI filter value to create the connection between the rule and the BAdI implementation.
For more information about how to set this up, see Extensibility for Responsibility Management. When selecting a responsibility context,
choose the one with the relevant workflow scenario ID:
WS02000447 (workflow for sales quotations)
WS01800145 (workflow for sales contracts)
WS02000006 (workflow for sales orders)
WS01800180 (workflow for sales orders without charge)
WS02000084 (workflow for customer returns)
WS02000029 (workflow for credit memo requests)
WS01800202 (workflow for debit memo requests)
 Remember
Always ensure that all workflow conditions you set match the BAdI implementation. If the BAdI sets an approval request
reason, there must be at least one active workflow with an according start condition. Otherwise, the BAdI may put documents
into approval, but no workflow will ever send them to a designated approver.
 Caution
It is essential that you carry out all these steps before you work with approvals. If you set up the configuration activity and the BAdI,
but do not set up the workflow and assign approvers, your sales documents are in approval and thus locked for manual processing.
You must then manually withdraw the approval request to be able to edit the document.
For more information about withdrawing approval requests, see Approve or Rework a Sales Document.

---

Setup Example: Approval Workflows in Your System
The following example illustrates the setup of an approval process in your system.
You want to define an approval process for sales orders that works as follows:
A first level approver must approve all sales orders from sales organization 1000.
A second level approver must approve all sales orders from sales organization 2000 that have a net value over USD 10,000.
The following figure illustrates this decision logic:
To enable this process, you make the following settings:
Configuration Activity
1. In your configuration environment, use the search function to open the following activity Document Approvals For more
information, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition
2. In the Define Reasons for Approval Requests configuration activity, create two entries:
a. Approval request reason ID: 0001
Approval request reason: Sales organization 1000 needs approval
External workflow: Do not select this checkbox.
b. Approval request reason ID: 0002
Approval request reason: Sales organization 2000 needs approval
External workflow: Do not select this checkbox.
3. In the Assign Reasons for Approval Requests configuration activity, create two entries:
a. Document category: C (sales order)
Approval request reason: 0001
b. Document category: C (sales order)

---

Approval request reason: 0002
BAdI Implementation
1. Open the Custom Logic app.
2. Create and publish the following custom logic:
Business context: Sales: Sales Document
BAdI description: Approval Request Reasons for Sales Documents
Implementation description: Approvals for sales orders
Team Member Definition
1. Open the Manage Teams and Responsibilities app.
2. Create a team:
Name: Sales Order Approval
Global ID: SO_APPROVAL
Type: SALES
Description: For approval of sales orders
Status: Enabled
3. Add responsibility definitions:
a. Name: SalesDocumentType
Value: TA
b. Name: SalesOrganisation
Value: 1000 and 2000
4. Add team members:
 Remember
You assigned the approval request reasons to sales orders, so you must include the same sales document type in the BAdI.
 Sample Code
if salesdocument-salesdocumenttype = 'TA' and salesdocument-salesorganization = '1000'.
salesdocapprovalreason = '0001'.
endif.
if salesdocument-salesdocumenttype = 'TA' and salesdocument-salesorganization = '2000'.
if salesdocument-totalnetamount > 10000 and salesdocument-transactioncurrency eq 'USD'.
salesdocapprovalreason = '0002'.
endif.
endif.
 Note
You can only use the format found in the data base, not the language-dependent format you find on the UI. For example, use
sales document type TA instead of OR which you find on the English UI for standard orders.

---

a. Business partner: John Approver
Function: CMR1LVLA (sales document approver - level 1)
b. Business partner: Jane Approver
Function: CMR2LVLA (sales document approver - level 2)
Authorizations
1. Open the Maintain Business Roles app.
2. Make sure that the business role that is assigned to your internal sales representatives contains the business catalog Sales -
My Inbox (SAP_SD_BC_MYINBOX_PC).
3. For the internal sales representatives, maintain the restrictions for Sales Area and SD Document Category for Approval
Management as follows:
No write access
Read access for the sales organizations 1000 and 2000
Unrestricted read access for sales orders
4. Make sure that the business role that is assigned to your sales managers (that is, your approvers) contains the business catalog
Sales - My Inbox (SAP_SD_BC_MYINBOX_PC).
5. For the approvers, maintain the restrictions for Sales Area and SD Document Category for Approval Management as
follows:
Unrestricted write access for the sales organization, the distribution channel, and the division of the sales area for which
the sales manager is responsible
Unrestricted write access for sales orders
Workflow Configuration
1. Open the Manage Sales Document Workflows app and select the workflow for sales orders. Add a new workflow, give it a
name, and set its properties, if necessary.
2. Add a step of type Release of Sales Order and define this step as follows:
a. Name the step Sales Organization 1000 - Level 1.
b. Select the assignment by role and then Sales Document Approver - Level 1 as the recipient.
c. Set the following precondition: Approval request reason of sales order is 0001.
d. Under Exception Handling, for the Rework of Sales Order exception, set the required action to Rework of Sales
Order and the action result to Restart workflow.
 Remember
You defined the sales document type (sales order) and the sales organization (1000 and 2000, for the latter in connection
with a minimum net value) along with the approval request reason in the BAdI. The conditions of your active workflow must
match your BAdI implementation. Otherwise, the BAdI may put documents into approval, but no workflow will ever send them
to a designated approver.
You also defined specific team members in the Manage Teams and Responsibilities app. Make sure to enter these here as
recipients.

---

e. Add the new step.
During this step, all sales orders from sales organization 1000 are sent for approval to John, the first-level approver (or another
employee with this role). If John, while processing the document in the notifications or in the My Inbox app, chooses Rework,
the sales order is sent back to the internal sales representative for rework. After the internal sales representative has reworked
the document, the BAdI is called again and, depending on the changes, the workflow may be restarted.
3. Add another step of type Release of Sales Order and define this step as follows:
a. Name the step Sales Organization 2000 + Value > 10K - Level 2.
b. Select the assignment by role and then Sales Document Approver - Level 2 as the recipient.
c. Set the following precondition: Approval request reason of sales order is 0002.
d. Under Exception Handling, for the Rework of Sales Order exception, set the required action to Rework of Sales
Order and the action result to Restart workflow.
e. Add the new step.
During this step, all sales orders from sales organization 2000 that have a net value greater than USD 10,000 are sent for
approval to Jane, the second-level approver (or another employee with this role). If Jane, while processing the document in the
notifications or in the My Inbox app, chooses Rework, the document is sent back to the internal sales representative for rework.
After the internal sales representative has reworked the document, the BAdI is called again and, depending on the changes, the
workflow may be restarted.
4. Save and activate the workflow.
Manage Sales Document Workflows
Create and maintain workflows for the approval of sales documents.
App ID: F3014
Use
With this app, you, as a configuration expert, can configure workflows for the approval process of sales documents.
The app allows you to define preconditions under which a sales document should be approved and to select the recipient(s) who should
approve it. If a workflow is activated and the configured preconditions are fulfilled, the workflow is initiated. Approvers receive the sales
documents for approval in the My Inbox app and as notifications.
Prerequisites
 Note
If you set up a workflow with more than one approver, be aware that several conditions can be met at the same time. This is the
case for the following example:
1. You create a condition for a net value greater than USD 10,000 and assign a second level approver.
2. You create a condition for a net value greater than USD 5,000 and assign a first level approver.
If your sales document has a net value of USD 12,000, both conditions are met. This means that both approvers receive the
approval request.

---

Note that the settings you make in this app constitute one of several steps that together make up the approval process. Make sure that
you make all the necessary settings which are described here: Approval Workflows in Your System.
In addition to this, the following conditions must be met:
Ensure that a sales manager who approves sales documents is assigned a role that uses the SAP_SD_BC_MYINBOX_PC catalog
where the following values are enabled for the appropriate sales area in the Sales Area and SD Document Category for Approval
Management restriction:
B (sales quotation)
G (sales contract)
C (sales order)
I (sales order without charge)
H (returns order)
K (credit memo request)
L (debit memo request)
Credit Memo Requests
For the approval workflows to start, as a prerequisite, you must make sure that no billing block is set for the relevant credit memo
request types in the configuration. If a billing block is set, you must remove it by using the Configure Sales Document Types
configuration activity. For more information, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
Note the following for the SAP-delivered content:
The billing block Y8 is set for the following credit memo request types: CRB, G2, RK, RKDP.
No billing block is set for the following credit memo request types: CMR4, GA2.
Debit Memo Requests
For the approval workflows to start, as a prerequisite, you must make sure that no billing block is set for the relevant debit memo
request types in the configuration. If a billing block is set, you must remove it by using the Configure Sales Document Types
configuration activity. For more information, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
Note the following for the SAP-delivered content:
The billing block Y9 is set for the following debit memo request types: CBII, DRB, DR, LDPI.
No billing block is set for the following debit memo request types: DMR1, DMR3, DMR4, DMR5.
Key Features
Create a new workflow.
Configure a workflow as follows:
 Caution
Setting up approval workflows for credit memo requests using the obsolete method is not supported.

---

Define properties such as workflow name, description, and validity period.
Define preconditions for the workflow.
You can use the + (Add Another Condition) and the Add Alternative Preconditions functionality to create "and/or"
precondition structures.
Add a step to the workflow step sequence.
Step Type
Description
Exception Handling
Release of <sales document>
A sales document requiring an approval
is sent to the responsible approver(s) in
the My Inbox app, where they can
release or reject the approval request,
or request a rework of the sales
document by the initiator (usually, the
internal sales representative or returns
and refund clerk).
Define the required action when the
sales document approver asks for a
rework of the sales document by
choosing Request Rework.
Rework of <sales document>
When a sales manager selects
Request Rework during the approval of
a sales document, the sales document
is sent back to the initiator automatically
in the My Inbox app. There is no need
to define a workflow step for this.
No business exceptions available.
Activate or deactivate a workflow.
 Tip
The approval process provides a highly flexible environment. We recommend that you create various approval
request reasons for your purposes and include any conditions in the BAdI logic. In this app, you can then stick to the
precondition that starts a workflow whenever a specific approval request reason is found. This way, you avoid the risk
of the BAdI putting documents into approval that the corresponding workflow is unable to allocate to a designated
approver because the conditions don't match.
 Note
You can set a net value limit as the condition to start a workflow. If the currency defined in the workflow condition
differs from the transaction currency in your sales document, the system converts the preset net value to the
transaction currency using the exchange rate from the Currency Exchange Rates app.
Example: You define that a workflow starts when the document net value reaches 100 USD. However, a sales
document may use a transaction currency other than USD. For example, a sales document is created in EUR with a
transaction amount of 95. Based on the exchange rate in the Currency Exchange Rates app, the 100 USD limit can
be converted to 92 EUR. Then a workflow starts because the document net value (95 EUR) exceeds the preset limit
(100 USD = 92 EUR).
 Caution
Do not add this step type to your
workflow.
 Note
Only active workflows are processed. It is not possible to edit a workflow once it has been activated.

---

Define the order in which to check the preconditions of active workflows.
If you have defined several workflows, the workflow preconditions are checked in the order that you have defined. As soon as
the start conditions for a workflow are met, this workflow is used. This ensures that only one workflow in the list of your defined
workflows is started, even if several workflows have matching start conditions.
Display details of a workflow.
Copy an existing workflow.
Delete an existing workflow.
Supported Device Types
Desktop
Tablet
Related Information
Manage Workflows
Manage Teams and Responsibilities
Custom Fields App and Custom Logic App
Example: Workflow for Sales Quotations
App Extensibility: Manage Sales Document Workflows
Example: Workflow for Sales Quotations
Example workflow definition for approval of sales quotations.
You want to define a sales quotation approval process where:
A first level approver must approve all sales quotations under or equal to 10,000 USD.
A second level approver must approve all sales quotations over 10,000 USD.
To enable this process, set up the configuration steps and the BAdI, and create two workflows as follows:
1. Create workflow A.
a. Specify a name for the workflow and set its properties.
b. Set the preconditions:
Net value is greater than: 10,000 USD
c. Create a step of type Release of Sales Quotation.
i. Select Sales Document Approver - Level 2 as the recipient.
ii. Under Exception Handling, for the Request rework of Sales Quotation exception, set Required Action to
Rework of Sales Quotation and the Action Result to Restart workflow.
Based on workflow A, all sales quotations exceeding 10,000 USD are sent for approval to the second level approver. If the
second level approver, processing the sales quotation in the notifications or in the My Inbox app, chooses Rework, the sales

---

quotation is sent to the internal sales representative for reprocessing. After the internal sales representative has reworked the
sales quotation, the BAdI is called again and, depending on the changes, the workflow may be restarted.
2. Create Workflow B.
a. Specify a name for the workflow and set its properties.
b. Create a step of type Release of Sales Quotation.
i. Select Sales Document Approver - Level 1 as the recipient.
ii. Under Exception Handling, for the Rework of Sales Quotation exception, set Required Action to Rework of
Sales Quotation and the Action Result to Restart workflow.
3. Order the workflows to be executed as follows:
1-Workflow A
2-Workflow B
Based on the two workflows and the workflow order you have defined, all sales quotations between 0 and 10,000 USD are sent
to the first level approver for approval. If the first level approver, processing the sales quotation in the notifications or in the My
Inbox app, chooses Rework, the sales quotation is sent to the internal sales representative for reprocessing. After the internal
sales representative has reworked the sales quotation, the BAdI is called again and, depending on the changes, the workflow
may be restarted.
Related Information
Manage Sales Document Workflows
App Extensibility: Manage Sales Document Workflows
Extending the Manage Sales Document Workflows app.
As a key user, you can extend the Manage Sales Document Workflows app according to your business needs.
Features
You can extend the app to include additional workflow preconditions by providing and publishing enhancement implementations for
both of the following Business Add-Ins (BAdIs) in the Custom Logic app:
BAdI Description
Business Context
Filter
Providing additional conditions for scenarios
Sales: Sales Document
scenario_id =
WS02000447 (workflow for sales
quotations)
WS01800145 (workflow for sales
contracts)
WS02000006 (workflow for sales
orders)
WS01800180 (workflow for sales
orders without charge)
Value evaluation of additional conditions for
scenarios

---

BAdI Description
Business Context
Filter
WS02000084 (workflow for
customer returns)
WS02000029 (workflow for credit
memo requests)
WS01800202 (workflow for debit
For more information about the BAdIs, see the BAdI documentation and example implementation in the Custom Logic app.
Related Information
Key User Extensibility
Custom Logic
Manage Sales Quotations
App Extensibility: Manage Sales Quotations
Approval Statuses and Authorizations
Learn more about approval statuses of sales documents, their implications, and relevant authorizations.
Approval Statuses
The approval status of a document tells you which stage of the approval process the document is in. A document can have one of the
following statuses:
Not relevant: The document can be processed without any additional approval.
In approval: The document has been sent to the approver, but not yet released or rejected. In this stage, you cannot change the
document or create any subsequent documents (for example, delivery documents or billing documents) for it. Note the following:
You can configure the system behavior for purchase requisitions. If you do not want the system to automatically create a
purchase requisition as long as a sales order is in approval, you can indicate this for one or more approval request
reasons.
Your configuration expert must make settings in the following configuration activities:
Define Reasons for Approval Requests
Assign Reasons for Approval Requests
For more information, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
You can still withdraw the approval request, which makes the document editable again. To do so, open the sales
document in display mode and choose
More   Edit   Additional Functions   Withdraw Approval Request
. For
sales orders, you can also withdraw the approval request in the Manage Sales Orders - Version 2 app.
For credit memo requests, you can also withdraw the approval request in the Manage Credit Memo Requests -
Version 2 app.
 Note
You can only defer the creation of a purchase requisition for a sales order when using third-party order processing
(that is, when the creation of a purchase requisition is triggered by saving a sales order).

---

When you withdraw an approval request, the document status changes as if the approver had sent the document back
to be reworked. You can then change the document. Once you save it, the system checks again whether it is relevant for
approvals and, if so, the approval process starts afresh.
Released: The document has been approved. In this stage, you can create subsequent documents and change the document
when necessary. If the sales document is still relevant for approvals after the change, it reenters the approval workflow.
Rejected: The approver has denied an approval. This leads to the rejection of the entire document. You can change the
document and thus trigger a new approval request.
To be reworked: The approver has asked for the document to be adapted. The approver isn't willing to approve the document as
it is.
Where to Find the Approval Status
The approval status is displayed in various sales document apps. If a document is relevant for approvals, you can also see the following
information in the object page app for the relevant sales document:
The approval request reason
Approval details
The details list the single steps in an approval workflow and the users involved. A step corresponds to an action (the release of
the document when it's first saved, the rework, and the release with the approval). You can navigate to the step details to check
when the last action was taken.
This information can be helpful, for example, when you need to find out who was asked to approve a document.
For sales orders, your key user can also add approval fields to the Manage Sales Orders - Version 2 app using key user adaptation.
Indirect Changes of Documents
 Caution
Once a sales document is approved, approvers can no longer reject it. SAP strongly recommends to only change approved
sales documents in exceptional cases. An approval also triggers subsequent processes like deliveries and billing. Keep in
mind that you will have an impact on these subsequent processes if you change any approved documents. If you as an
approver want to reject a single newly added item, send the sales document back to the approval requester for rework.
Example
Your internal sales representative Richard Wilson creates sales order 1203 with one item for a laptop with a net value of USD 1,200.
You have set up the approval workflow so that all sales documents with a net value that is higher than USD 1,000 need be sent to
an approver.
One of your approvers is your sales manager Julie Armstrong. Julie receives a notification in her inbox telling her that she needs to
check a sales order. She reviews the content and releases the sales order.
Three days later, Richard receives a call from the customer who ordered the laptop, saying that they forgot to add the laptop bag to
their order. Richard adds a second item for the bag to the sales order. Since the net value of the entire sales order is still higher than
USD 1,000, this triggers a second approval request. The status of the sales order changes, it is no longer approved but in approval
again.
Julie reviews the content. Since she already approved the sales order with the first item and has no objections regarding the second
item, she again releases the sales order.

---

In certain cases, sales documents that are in approval or have been approved can be changed by the system. For example, if a credit
controller checks the a credit-blocked sales document and releases it, the system changes the credit status of the sales document. The
approval status remains unchanged. Another example might be the creation of a purchase requisition for a schedule line: Once a
purchase order is created, the system updates the document flow in the sales document.
Authorizations
Recommended Settings
When you set up the role for your internal sales representative (based on the business role template
SAP_BR_INTERNAL_SALES_REP) or returns and refund clerk (based on the business role template
SAP_BR_RETURNS_REFUND_CLERK) in the Maintain Business Roles app, make sure the role has the Sales - My Inbox
(SAP_SD_BC_MYINBOX_PC) business catalog assigned to it.
Maintain the restrictions for the Sales Area and SD Document Category for Approval Management restriction type as follows:
Field
Write Access
Read Access
Sales organization
No access
As needed
Distribution channel
No access
As needed
Division
No access
As needed
SD document category
No access
Unrestricted access for all document
categories that support approval processes
When you set up the role for your sales manager (based on the business role template SAP_BR_SALES_MANAGER) in the Maintain
Business Roles app, make sure the role has the Sales - My Inbox (SAP_SD_BC_MYINBOX_PC) business catalog assigned to it.
Maintain the restrictions for the Sales Area and SD Document Category for Approval Management restriction type as follows:
Field
Write Access
Sales organization
Unrestricted access for the sales organization of the sales area for
which the sales manager is responsible
Distribution channel
Unrestricted access for the distribution channel of the sales area for
which the sales manager is responsible
Division
Unrestricted access for the division of the sales area for which the
sales manager is responsible
SD document category
Unrestricted access for all document categories that support approval
processes
For more information, see How to Define Authorizations Based on Restrictions.
Changes of Approved Documents by Sales Managers
 Remember
If you do not give sales managers unrestricted write access for the relevant SD document categories, these sales managers cannot
release or reject approval requests or send them back for rework.

---

In exceptional cases, you might want your sales manager to change approved documents.
In addition to the business catalog mentioned above, the business role of your sales manager must then contain the business catalogs
needed for processing the relevant sales document category.
For sales quotation processing: SAP_SD_BC_QUOT_PROC_MC
For sales contract processing: SAP_SD_BC_CONTR_PROC_MC
For sales order processing: SAP_SD_BC_SO_PROC_MC
For sales order without charge processing: SAP_SD_BC_ORDERS_OWC_PROC_MC
For customer return processing: SAP_SD_BC_RETURNS_PROC_PC
For credit memo request processing: SAP_SD_BC_CMR_PROC_MC
For debit memo request processing: SAP_SD_BC_DMR_PROC_MC
Authorizations from the Processing Business Catalogs for the Relevant Sales
Document Types: General
Field
Write Access
Sales document type
Unrestricted access
Sales document type for payment cards
Unrestricted access
Class type
Unrestricted access
Warehouse number/warehouse complex
Unrestricted access
Shipping point/receiving point
Unrestricted access
Related Information
Approve or Rework a Sales Document
Maintain Business Roles
Change Sales Orders - VA02
Manage Sales Orders
Track Sales Order Details
Sales Quotation
Sales Contract
Sales Order
Credit Memo Request
Manage Customer Returns
Manage Debit Memo Requests
 Note
A sales manager role would usually not contain these business catalogs. Once you assign these catalogs to the role, the sales
manager can use the Manage Sales Quotations, the Manage Sales Orders, the Manage Sales Orders Without Charge, the
Manage Customer Returns, the Manage Credit Memo Requests, and the Manage Debit Memo Requests apps to search for the
relevant sales document to edit it.

---

Approve or Rework a Sales Document
Learn how you can process a request for approval or rework in the notifications area or in the My Inbox app.
Use
A sales manager, an internal sales representative, or a returns and refund clerk can receive notifications and tasks in the My Inbox app,
if an approval workflow for a particular sales document has been defined by a configuration expert with regards to this sales document.
Key Features
The following notifications and tasks can be received:
User
Sales Document
Notification/Task
Sales Document-Specific Actions
Sales manager
Sales
quotation
Sales
contract
Sales order
Sales order
without
charge
Returns
order
Credit
memo
request
Debit memo
request
Release of <sales
document>
Release
Approve the request.
Request Rework
Send the sales document back for modification to the internal
sales representative or returns and refund clerk who created it.
Reject
Reject the approval request. The approval status of the sales
document is set to Rejected.
Internal sales
representative
Sales
quotation
Sales
contract
Sales order
Sales order
without
charge
Credit
memo
request
Debit memo
request
Rework of <sales
document>
Open the sales document and make the required changes.
Once the internal sales representative saves the modified
sales document, it automatically re-enters the workflow and is
sent for approval based on the defined workflow preconditions
and steps.
Rework not Required
Send the sales document back to a sales manager for approval
without making any changes.

---

User
Sales Document
Notification/Task
Sales Document-Specific Actions
Returns and
refund clerk
Returns order
Rework of <returns
order>
Open the return and make the required changes.
Once the returns and refund clerk confirms the changes of a
returns order, it automatically re-enters the workflow and is
sent for approval based on the defined workflow preconditions
and steps.
Rework not Required
Send the returns order back to a sales manager for approval
without making any changes.
If your system is integrated with SAP Task Center, you can also receive approval workflow tasks for sales quotations, sales contracts,
sales orders, sales orders without charge, returns orders, credit memo requests, and debit memo requests in the SAP Task Center
app. For more information about an integration with SAP Task Center in general, see Integrating SAP Task Center.
Related Information
Manage Sales Document Workflows
Set Up Email Notifications for Approval Workflows
Use
When workflows are set up correctly, both approval requesters and approvers receive notifications and tasks in the My Inbox app. They
can also be notified through automated emails in approval workflows for the following sales document categories:
Sales quotations
Sales contracts
Sales orders
Sales orders without charge
Returns orders
Credit memo requests
Debit memo requests
Approvers can receive two types of email notifications:
Notifications about new approval requests when approval requesters finalize sales documents
Reminders about approval requests when a predefined due time is reached
Approval requesters can receive three types of email notifications:
 Note
Email notifications are not available for external approval workflows (see Approval Workflows in an External System).

---

Notifications about approvers' release of sales documents
Notifications about approvers' rejection of sales documents
Notifications about approvers' request to rework sales documents
For sales contracts, the approval requester is always the document creator.
For sales quotations, sales orders, sales orders without charge, returns orders, credit memo requests, and debit memo requests, the
system regards the user who creates the document and any user who changes the document as approval requesters. Notification
recipients vary with the approver's action:
The document creator and the user who last changed the document receive document release and rejection notifications.
The user who last changed the document receives document rework notifications.
Setting Up Email Notifications
Setup Overview
Step
App
Business Catalog
Step A: Specify email addresses for approvers and
approval requesters.
Manage Workforce
Master Data - Manage Workforce
(SAP_BUM_BC_MNG_WORKFORCE_PC)
Step B: Create custom email templates.
Maintain Email Templates
Output Management - Email Templates
(SAP_CORE_BC_OM_ET)
Step C (Optional): Set a time limit to trigger approval
reminder emails.
Manage Sales Document
Workflows
Sales - Sales Configuration
(SAP_SD_BC_CONFIGURE_PC)
Step A: Maintaining Email Addresses in App Manage Workforce
Specify email addresses for approvers and approval requesters.
Step B: Creating Custom Email Templates in App Maintain Email Templates
1. Copy the predelivered email templates that you need, and save them as custom templates.
Example
A sales quotation that is relevant for approvals was created by John but later changed by Julie. Notification recipients in different
situations are explained as follows:
After the approver approves or rejects the sales quotation, both John and Julie receive notifications about the document
release or rejection.
After the approver sends a rework request, only Julie receives the rework notification.
 Note
This step is only relevant for approval reminders.
Without the setting, approvers will not receive
reminder emails.
 Note

---

The following tables list the predelivered templates and the naming rules for your custom templates.
Sales Quotation
Role
Email Notification Type
Predelivered Template
Mandatory Custom Template ID
Approver
New approval request
SD_SLS_QTN_APPROVAL_EMAIL_TMPL
02000447_CRT_ALL or
02000447_CRT_9
Approval reminder
SD_SLS_QTN_DEADLINE_EMAIL_TMPL
Any custom ID you like (no longer than
26 characters)
Approval
requester
Document release
SD_SLS_QTN_RELEASE_EMAIL_TMPL
02000447_COMPLETE_POSITIVE
Document rejection
SD_SLS_QTN_REJECT_EMAIL_TMPL
02000447_COMPLETE_NEGATIVE
Document rework request
SD_SLS_QTN_REWORK_EMAIL_TMPL
02000447_CRT_70
Sales Contract
Role
Email Notification Type
Predelivered Template
Mandatory Custom Template ID
Approver
New approval request
SD_SLS_CTR_APPROVAL_EMAIL_TMPL
01800145_CRT_10
Approval reminder
SD_SLS_CTR_DEADLINE_EMAIL_TMPL
Any custom ID you like (no longer than
26 characters)
Approval
requester
Document release
SD_SLS_CTR_RELEASE_EMAIL_TMPL
01800145_COMPLETE_POSITIVE
Document rejection
SD_SLS_CTR_REJECT_EMAIL_TMPL
01800145_COMPLETE_NEGATIVE
Document rework request
SD_SLS_CTR_REWORK_EMAIL_TMPL
01800145_CRT_19
Sales Order
Role
Email Notification Type
Predelivered Template
Mandatory Custom Template ID
Approver
New approval request
SD_SLS_SO_APPROVAL_EMAIL_TMPL
02000006_CRT_9
Approval reminder
SD_SLS_SO_DEADLINE_EMAIL_TMPL
Any custom ID you like (no longer than
26 characters)
Approval
requester
Document release
SD_SLS_SO_RELEASE_EMAIL_TMPL
02000006_COMPLETE_POSITIVE
Document rejection
SD_SLS_SO_REJECT_EMAIL_TMPL
02000006_COMPLETE_NEGATIVE
Document rework request
SD_SLS_SO_REWORK_EMAIL_TMPL
02000006_CRT_21
Sales Order Without Charge
Role
Email Notification Type
Predelivered Template
Mandatory Custom Template ID
Approver
New approval request
SD_SLS_WOC_APPROVAL_EMAIL_TMPL
01800180_CRT_9
For the custom templates that you create, you must use the IDs that you find below in the table. Otherwise, the system
won't send any email notifications.
The system adds a custom prefix (for example, YY1_) to each ID.

---

Role
Email Notification Type
Predelivered Template
Mandatory Custom Template ID
Approval reminder
SD_SLS_WOC_DEADLINE_EMAIL_TMPL
Any custom ID you like (no longer than
26 characters)
Approval
requester
Document release
SD_SLS_WOC_RELEASE_EMAIL_TMPL
01800180_COMPLETE_POSITIVE
Document rejection
SD_SLS_WOC_REJECT_EMAIL_TMPL
01800180_COMPLETE_NEGATIVE
Document rework request
SD_SLS_WOC_REWORK_EMAIL_TMPL
01800180_CRT_24
Returns Order
Role
Email Notification Type
Predelivered Template
Mandatory Custom Template ID
Approver
New approval request
SD_SLS_CR_APPROVAL_EMAIL_TMPL
02000084_CRT_39
Approval reminder
SD_SLS_CR_DEADLINE_EMAIL_TMPL
Any custom ID you like (no longer than
26 characters)
Approval
requester
Document release
SD_SLS_CR_RELEASE_EMAIL_TMPL
02000084_COMPLETE_POSITIVE
Document rejection
SD_SLS_CR_REJECT_EMAIL_TMPL
02000084_COMPLETE_NEGATIVE
Document rework request
SD_SLS_CR_REWORK_EMAIL_TMPL
02000084_CRT_26
Credit Memo Request
Role
Email Notification Type
Predelivered Template
Mandatory Custom Template ID
Approver
New approval request
SD_SLS_CMR_APPROVAL_EMAIL_TMPL
02000029_CRT_ALL or
02000029_CRT_26
Approval reminder
SD_SLS_CMR_DEADLINE_EMAIL_TMPL
Any custom ID you like (no longer than
26 characters)
Approval
requester
Document release
SD_SLS_CMR_RELEASE_EMAIL_TMPL
02000029_COMPLETE_POSITIVE
Document rejection
SD_SLS_CMR_REJECT_EMAIL_TMPL
02000029_COMPLETE_NEGATIVE
Document rework request
SD_SLS_CMR_REWORK_EMAIL_TMPL
02000029_CRT_41
Debit Memo Request
Role
Email Notification Type
Predelivered Template
Mandatory Custom Template ID
Approver
New approval request
SD_DMR_APPROVAL_EMAIL_TMPL
01800202_CRT_9
Approval reminder
SD_DMR_DEADLINE_EMAIL_TMPL
Any custom ID you like (no longer than
26 characters)
Approval
requester
Document release
SD_DMR_RELEASE_EMAIL_TMPL
01800202_COMPLETE_POSITIVE
Document rejection
SD_DMR_REJECT_EMAIL_TMPL
01800202_COMPLETE_NEGATIVE
Document rework request
SD_DMR_REWORK_EMAIL_TMPL
01800202_CRT_21
2. Adjust template texts for each language that your company supports.

---

Step C (Only for Approval Reminders): Setting Time Limit in App Manage Sales Document Workflows
You can do this on the deadlines tab when adding a workflow step to the corresponding workflow. The following takes the sales order
workflow as an example:
Setup Example
 Note
If you have created custom email templates for approval reminders, a time limit must be set for the corresponding workflows in the
Manage Sales Document Workflows app.
Example
In approval workflows for credit memo requests, sales manager Laura wants to receive emails containing approval request
notifications and approval reminders. The following must be completed to enable these email notifications for Laura.
In the Manage Workforce app, the administrator imports Laura's employment information, including her email address.
In the Maintain Email Templates app, the administrator copies the following predelivered email templates to custom templates,
using the mandatory IDs for the custom templates:
Predelivered template: SD_SLS_CMR_APPROVAL_EMAIL_TMPL, custom template: 02000029_CRT_ALL
Predelivered template: SD_SLS_CMR_DEADLINE_EMAIL_TMPL, custom template: SD_SLS_CMR_DEADLINE_EMAIL
(or any freely defined ID no longer than 26 characters)
In the Manage Sales Document Workflows app, the business process configuration expert defines a workflow as needed. In this
workflow, Laura is selected as the approver, and a time limit is set (for example, one day after the workflow starts) to trigger approval
reminder emails.
As a result, when a credit memo request that meets the workflow condition is finalized, Laura receives an email about the new
approval request. If she forgets to process this workflow task, Laura receives an approval reminder email on the next day, reminding

---

Related Information
Manage Sales Document Workflows
Approve or Rework a Sales Document
Approval Statuses and Authorizations
Maintain Email Templates
Manage Workforce
Skip Approval Workflows
Learn how you can skip the approval workflow, but still set an approval request reason.
Use
For approval workflows for sales documents, you can control whether the approval workflow is triggered or skipped when all conditions
from the implementation of the Approval Request Reasons for Sales Documents Business Add-In (BAdI) are fulfilled and an
approval request reason is set. Skipping the approval workflow can be helpful in cases like the following:
When a user creates a sales document that doesn't need to be sent to an approver (for example, because its net value is very
low). As the system still sets an approval request reason, it allows you to track these sales documents.
When a user makes noncritical changes to a sales document that was already approved before. Sending this sales document
back to an approver would create unnecessary effort.
Settings
In your configuration environment, use the search function to open the following activity: Document Approvals. You can find the option
in the Define Reasons for Approval Requests activity. You can choose to skip the approval workflow for one or more approval request
reasons.
Dependencies
You can choose to use the approval workflow of an external system or to skip the approval workflow, but not both for the same approval
request reason.
In addition, you can only indicate that you want to skip the approval workflow for a specific approval request reason if this reason has
not been assigned yet to a sales document category in the Assign Reasons for Approval Requests configuration activity.
When you indicate that you want to skip the approval workflow for a specific approval request reason, the following supply control
options cannot be enabled:
Defer purchase requisition
Set confirmed quantities to zero
Set supply block
The first option is configured in the Define Reasons for Approval Requests configuration activity, while the latter two options are
maintained in the Assign Reasons for Approval Requests configuration activities. In addition, the latter two options are only
her to process the approval request. Laura can open the My Inbox app to check for the workflow task and take the approve, reject,
or required rework action.

---

supported for sales orders and sales orders without charge.
Example
1. Uncritical Change in Sales Orders
In your company, you decide that if a user changes the shipping type in an already approved standard order, you don't want these sales
orders to enter the approval workflow again if this change doesn't impact the net value.
1. In the Define Reasons for Approval Requests configuration activity, you create a new approval request reason ZSKP
(uncritical change) and select the option to skip the workflow.
2. In the Assign Reasons for Approval Requests configuration activity, you assign this this approval request reason ZSKP to SD
document category C (that is, sales orders).
For all other sales orders, you use the existing approval request reason Z000.
3. In the Custom Logic app, you create a new implementation for the Approval Request Reasons for Sales Documents BAdI:
The following figure provides an overview of the approval workflow for sales orders:
IF salesdocument-sddocumentcategory = 'C' AND salesdocument-salesdocumenttype = 'TA'.
LOOP AT salesdocumentitem ASSIGNING FIELD-SYMBOL(<ls_salesdocumentitem>).
SELECT SINGLE shippingtype, netamount FROM i_salesdocumentitem WITH PRIVILEGED ACCESS
WHERE salesdocument = @salesdocument-salesdocument
AND salesdocumentitem = @<ls_salesdocumentitem>-salesdocumentitem
INTO @DATA(ls_item_before).
IF sy-subrc = 0.
IF ( ls_item_before-shippingtype NE <ls_salesdocumentitem>-shippingtype ) AND
( ls_item_before-netamount EQ <ls_salesdocumentitem>-netamount ).
"No approval as shipping type change is uncritical and net amount did not change
salesdocapprovalreason = 'ZSKP'.
ELSE.
"Critical change
salesdocapprovalreason = 'Z000'.
EXIT.
ENDIF.
ELSE.
"New item
salesdocapprovalreason = 'Z000'.
EXIT.
ENDIF.
ENDLOOP.
ENDIF.

---

At the end of each quarter, you use the Manage Sales Orders - Version 2 app to filter for all sales orders with approval request reason
ZSKP to find out how many sales orders with uncritical changes didn't go into the approval process.
2: Low Net Value in New Sales Orders
In your company, you decide that you don't want newly created sales orders with a net value lower than USD 500 to be sent to an
approver. However, you want to be able to track these sales orders.
1. In the Define Reasons for Approval Requests configuration activity, you create a new approval request reason ZOR1 (low net
value) and select the option to skip the workflow.
2. In the Assign Reasons for Approval Requests configuration activity, you assign this this approval request reason ZOR1 to SD
document category C (that is, sales orders).
For all other sales orders, you use the existing approval request reason ZORS.
3. In the Custom Logic app, you create a new implementation for the Approval Request Reasons for Sales Documents BAdI:
The following figure provides an overview of the approval workflow for sales orders:
IF documentprocessingmode = 'CREATE' AND salesdocument-sddocumentcategory = 'C' AND salesdocu
salesdocapprovalreason = 'ZOR1'.
ELSE.
salesdocapprovalreason = 'ZORS'.
ENDIF.

---

At the end of each quarter, you use the Manage Sales Orders - Version 2 app to filter for all sales orders with approval request reason
ZOR1 to find out how many sales orders with low net values didn't go into the approval process.
Supply Control in Approval Workflows
As a configuration expert, you can specify supply control that applies when the document is relevant for approval but has not been
approved (that is, the document approval status is in approval, to be reworked, or rejected). The supply control remains in effect until
the document is approved.
The following supply control options are available in the Define Reasons for Approval Requests and Assign Reasons for Approval
Requests configuration activities in your configuration environment:
Defer purchase requisition (PR)
Set confirmed quantities to zero
Set supply block
When the sales document is supply-blocked, the system does the following:
Defer PR
In third-party order processing, the system blocks PR creation in schedule lines and deletes existing PRs that haven't been
converted to purchase orders.
Set confirmed quantities to zero
 Note
The latter two options are only supported for sales orders and sales orders without charge.

---

The system prevents confirmation via Available-to-Promise (ATP) checks and clears relevant confirmed quantities in schedule
lines.
Stop requirement transfer
The system stops requirement transfer to material requirements planning (MRP) and removes relevant planning information
from the MRP list.
As an internal sales representative, it's important to know the following:
If your sales document was already approved and you change it, the entire document is again in approval. This means that the
supply control (if any) is again in effect. This includes previously approved items, but not items that were already delivered.
If a sales order or sales order without charge is approved but the system still applies the supply control, you can check its credit
status or contact relevant stakeholders. For example, the supply block may also be attributed to the credit status (not approved)
or custom logic. For information about the settings that cause supply blocks, see Supply Blocks in Sales Documents.
Approval Workflows in an External System
Set up workflows to have sales documents approved in an external system.
External Approval Workflows
External workflows can be set up to establish a connection to an external system using APIs, whereas internal workflows are processed
directly in your system.
You can use the following APIs to release or reject an approval request for the related sales document categories:
Sales Order (A2X) (API_SALES_ORDER_SRV)
Example
Your internal sales representative Richard Wilson creates sales order 1203 with item 10 for a laptop with a net value of USD
1,200. The ATP run shows that the product is in stock and the system confirms the quantity.
Your configuration expert has set up the approval workflow so that all sales documents with a net value that is higher than
USD 1,000 need be sent to an approver. The approval status of the sales order changes, and the system resets the
confirmed quantity to zero.
One of your approvers is your sales manager Julie Armstrong. She reviews the content and releases the sales order. The
system resets the confirmed quantity to one.
Richard receives a call from the customer who ordered the laptop, saying that they want to order two more laptops with more
storage space. Richard adds a second item, item 20, to the sales order for the other laptops. The ATP run shows that both
products are in stock and the system confirms the quantity.
Your configuration expert has set up the approval workflow so that all sales documents with a net value that is higher than
USD 3,000 need be sent to a second level approver, Donna Moore. The approval status of the sales order changes, and the
system resets the confirmed quantities for both item 10 and item 20 to zero.
The system only confirms the quantities for both items once Donna has released the sales order.
 Note
in the Define Automatic Credit Control configuration activity, your configuration expert can specify the extent to which
supply is blocked when a sales order or sales order without charge is credit-blocked.

---

Sales Contract (A2X) (API_SALES_CONTRACT_SRV)
Sales Quotation (A2X) (API_SALES_QUOTATION_SRV)
Customer Return (A2X) (API_CUSTOMER_RETURN_SRV)
Credit Memo Request (A2X) (API_CREDIT_MEMO_REQUEST_SRV)
Note that these APIs don't allow you to send sales documents back to the internal sales representative or returns and refund clerk for
rework. It is also not possible to withdraw an approval request.
You can find these APIs on the SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Prerequisites
At least one approval request reason must be defined for the related sales document category. In your configuration
environment, use the search function to open the following activity:Document Approvals. For more information,
seeConfiguration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition. For each approval reason and each assignment, you
must indicate that you want to use the external workflow.
The Approval Request Reasons for Sales Documents BAdI (SD_APM_SET_APPROVAL_REASON) must be implemented
and return an approval request reason for which you chose to use an external workflow. This BAdI is called whenever a sales
document is saved by a business user.
You can find this BAdI in the Custom Logic app, using the Sales: Sales Document business context.
Related Information
Sales Order (A2X, OData V2)
Sales Quotation (A2X)
Credit Memo Request (A2X, OData V2)
Customer Return (A2X, OData V2)
Custom Logic
Troubleshooting
Did you run into trouble with your approval processes?
Approval processes are highly complex and might lead to errors. Check whether the following information can help you figure out how
to solve them.
Do you create sales documents? See if your problem is described below.
 Note
In this case, you cannot configure any internal workflow for this reason, and no internal workflow defined in the Manage
Sales Document Workflows app is triggered.
 Note
If you only use external workflows, there is no need to define preconditions and approval steps in the Manage Sales Document
Workflows app.

---

I have created and saved a sales document. The status of this document tells me that it's in approval, and I can't
change the document anymore. Before my manager approves the document, I urgently need to change it. What can I
do?
Call up the document in the corresponding app for displaying sales documents. In the menu, choose
More   Edit   Additional
Functions   Withdraw Approval Request
. Make your changes and save the document. This will trigger the process afresh.
For more information, see: Approve or Rework a Sales Document.
I have created and saved a sales document. The status of this document tells me that it's in approval, but it looks like
it was never sent to an approver. Why?
Ask your configuration expert to check the setup of the approval process. If the BAdI sets an approval request reason, there must be at
least one active workflow with an according start condition. Otherwise, the BAdI may put documents into approval, but no workflow will
ever send them to a designated approver.
For more information, see How to Set Up Approval Workflows in Your System.
I have created and saved a sales document. The status of this document tells me that it's in approval, and I can't
change the document anymore. Where can I see what's happening with my document and who is supposed to
approve it?
Call up the object page for your sales document (for example, by searching for the ID in the Enterprise Search in the header bar of the
SAP Fiori launchpad or using a link in another app). Here, you can see approval details, such as all the users that are involved.
For more information, see Approval Statuses and Authorizations.
I have created a sales document that has been approved. Can I still change my document?
Technically, it is possible to change approved documents. However, this is not recommended because it has an impact on subsequent
processes and can cause data inconsistencies.
For more information, see Approval Statuses and Authorizations.
I have created a sales document and it was rejected by an approver. Can I still change my document?
Yes, you can change your document. Once you save it, the system checks again whether it is relevant for approvals and, if so, the
approval process starts afresh.
Do you set up the approval process for your company? See if your problem is
described below.
My user has created a sales document which should have triggered an approval request, but the document does not
show up in my the My Inbox app.
Are you using an older workflow version? In this case, you might have assigned the user who is the approval requester as the approver.
This would mean that the user could approve their own approval requests. To avoid this, these approval requests are not displayed in
the My Inbox app because the work item does not have an agent and thus no workflow is triggered. You can check whether the work
item has an agent in the Work Items Without Agents app.
You have several options:
You can create a copy of your workflows, activate this copy, and deactivate your old workflows. This will assure that the latest
workflow version is used. Ask the approval requester to withdraw the approval request and to save the sales document. This

---

triggers the approval process again.
You can forward the work item to a different approver in the Work Items Without Agents app.
You can change the setup of your team so that no approval requester is assigned an approver role. Ask the approval requester
to withdraw the approval request and to save the sales document. This triggers the approval process again.
My users get an error message when they try to save a sales document that should be relevant for approvals.
You might have implemented the BAdI, set up a workflow, and activated it. However, the approval request reason you used in the BAdI
implementation has not been created or has not been assigned to the relevant sales document type. The sales document remains not
relevant for approvals and is not sent to an approver.
The following figure illustrates the process:
Check the following:
Did you define approval request reasons and assign them to sales document categories? If not, do so.
Did you use these approval request reasons in the BAdI implementation? If not, do so.
To solve the problem for any sales documents that are seemingly not relevant for approvals, ask the approval requester to change and
save the sales document (and release it, in case it's a customer return). This triggers the approval process again.
I have defined approval request reasons and assigned them to sales document categories. I have also set up a
workflow and activated it. Still, no sales documents are relevant for approvals and sent to an approver.
You might have set up most parts of the approval process, but missed out on the BAdI implementation. This means that no approval
request reason is set. The sales document remains not relevant for approvals and is not sent to an approver.
 Note
If an error message occurs saying that no user was found for the task, it could be that you have, for example, assigned the sales
manager, who is both the approver and approval requester.

---

The following figure illustrates the process:
Check the following:
Did you implement the BAdI? If not, do so.
To solve the problem for any sales documents that are seemingly not relevant for approvals, ask the approval requester to change and
save the sales document (and release it, in case it's a customer return). This triggers the approval process again.
I have defined approval request reasons and assigned them to sales document categories. I have also implemented
the BAdI and set up a workflow. Still, my sales documents are not sent to an approver.
It's possible that no workflow is active or your BadI implementation and the defined conditions don't match. No workflow is triggered.
The sales document remains in approval, but is not sent to an approver.
However, it could also be that none of the sales documents that were created were relevant for approvals and everything works as
expected.
The following figure illustrates the process:
 Remember
Always ensure that all workflow conditions you set are also replicated in the custom logic within the BAdI implementation.
Otherwise, the BAdI may put documents into approval that the corresponding workflow is unable to allocate to a designated
approver.

---

Check the following:
Did you activate your workflow? If not, activate it.
Do your workflow conditions match your BAdI implementation? If not, adapt the start conditions or preconditions, the BAdI
implementation, or both. Otherwise, the BAdI may put documents into approval that the corresponding workflow is unable to
allocate to a designated approver.
To solve the problem for any sales documents stuck in approval, let the approval requester withdraw the approval request (
More
Edit   Additional Functions   Withdraw Approval Request
) to reset the document status. After you have corrected the BAdI
implementation and the workflow, ask the approval requester to change and save the sales document (and release it, in case it's a
customer return). This triggers the approval process again.
I have set up the entire approval process and can see that sales documents are in approval, but they are not sent to
an approver.
You might have defined approval request reasons for external workflows only. The workflow is not triggered. The sales document is not
sent to an approver.
The following figure illustrates the process:
Check the following:
Which approval request reason was set in your sales document?
Was this approval request reason defined for external workflows in your configuration environment? If so, deselect the
checkbox. Alternatively, define and assign additional reasons for internal workflows, or set up your system for the use of external
workflows.
To solve the problem for any sales documents that are seemingly not relevant for approvals, ask the approval requester to change and
save the sales document (and release it, in case it's a customer return). This triggers the approval process again.
I have set up the entire approval process for specific sales document types, but not all sales documents are actually
sent to an approver.

---

You might have created and activated an approval workflow for a specific sales document type that only works in your logon language.
Check the following:
In the Manage Sales Document Workflows app, have you created a start condition based on the sales document type (for
example, Sales order type is or Sales document type is)? If so, did you select the value for the sales document type (such as
standard order for sales orders) using the value help?
Sales document types are represented by language-dependent keys on the UI. For example, in a system where you are logged on in
English, you use QT (quotation), OR (standard order), or CQ (quantity contract). In other languages, these keys are different.
Now, if your users log on to the system in a language that is different from your logon language and create a sales document that is
relevant for approvals, the sales document type in the user language doesn't match the sales document type that was defined in the
start condition and the workflow is not triggered.
To make sure that all sales document types are sent to an approver, edit the related start conditions in the Manage Sales Document
Workflows app without using the value help. Instead, manually add the language-dependent keys for all sales document types for all
languages in which your users log on to the system.
To solve the problem for any sales documents that don't trigger the approval process, ask the approval requester to withdraw the
approval request in the sales document, make a (dummy) change, and save the sales document. This triggers the approval process.
I have set up email notifications for the approval process, but no emails are sent.
You might have created custom templates, but not used the correct IDs.
Check the following:
In the Maintain Email Templates app, have you created custom templates? If so, do these custom templates have the IDs that
are mandatory for the templates to work? You can find a list of the IDs that you must use for custom templates for all sales
documents here: Set Up Email Notifications for Approval Workflows.
I have defined workflows in my quality system, but they don't show up in my production system.
You might need to export your workflows from the quality system and import them into the production system.
For more information, see How to Transport Workflow Scenario Content.
I have defined workflows in my quality system, transported them to my production system, but I cannot edit them.
By default, you cannot edit workflows that were transported to the production system. You have two options to make these workflows
editable:
You can create a copy of the workflow in the quality or development system, change it, and then transport that copy. Then,
delete or deactivate the original workflow in the quality system and transport that change, too.
You can enable modifications in the Manage Workflow Scenarios app.
For more information, see How to Transport Workflow Scenario Content.
Are you a workflow administrator? Check the following information.
Apps for Troubleshooting
As an administrator, you can use the following apps to identify work items with issues and errors:

---

Workflow Administration
Workflows in Status Error
Workflows with Issues
The following table shows important differences between these apps:
Troubleshooting Apps for the Flexible Workflow
Workflow Administration
Workflows in Status Error
Workflows with Issues
List of work
items
You can define your own list of all
erroneous work items by using the
following search options:
By period (for example: Last 7
days)
By status (for example: Waiting or
Error)
By workflow scenario (for
example: Workflow for Sales
Orders)
Displays the list of all erroneous work
items, sorted by workflow scenario
and error message.
Displays the list of all erroneous work
items, sorted by workflow scenario
and error type (Generic Error/Agent
Resolution failed).
How to
navigate to a
work item
and its log:
Proceed as follows:
1. Select an entry in the list of your
search results.
2. Choose Display Work Item.
3. Go to the tab Work Item Log.
Proceed as follows:
1. Select a line, that is, a workflow scenario with an error message/type.
2. Choose Display Instances.
3. Select an entry in the list of your search results.
4. Choose Display Work Item.
5. Go to the tab Work Item Log.
Relevant
actions
(explanations
see below)
Restart Workflow
Resume After Error
Execute Agent Rules
Cancel Workflow
Explanations of the relevant actions:
Restart Workflow
Using this action, you start a new workflow instance. The old workflow instance will be canceled. This means that the start
preconditions of the available workflows are checked again by the system. Depending on whether the workflows have been
changed, a different workflow may be used for the business document.
Resume After Error
Using this action, you keep the existing workflow instance and resume it from the step where the error has occurred.
For more information, see
Workflow Administration

---

Workflows in Status Error
Workflows with Issues
More Information for Troubleshooting
Situation
Tip
You are in the Workflow in Status Error or the Workflow with
Issues app. You are displaying the work item and you can see which
type of error has occurred.
If the error is related to agent determination, you can try to
resolve it, and then resume the workflow.
If the error was caused by a user locking the business object,
the error can be resolved automatically: The workflow engine
will try several times to resume the erroneous workflow. If the
business object is no longer locked, the workflow is resumed.
If the error is caused by inconsistencies in the business
object, contact the workflow initiator (the user responsible for
the business object) and discuss how to resolve the
inconsistency. For example, the user may withdraw the
business object from approval, adjust the business object,
and submit it again for approval.
You are in the Workflow in Status Error or the Workflow
Administration app. You are displaying the work item and you can
see which type of error has occurred.
The business user is working in an app where they can see the
approval details and notices that the workflow is shown as erroneous.
The business user should contact the workflow administrator to
initiate activities to resolve the error.
The agent determination has failed.
As an administrator, you can be notified in the SAP Fiori Launchpad if
an agent determination has failed. Prerequisite is that you have
defined a team in responsibility management, and that you are a team
member with the team function Workflow Administration
(WF_ADMIN). You can do this in the Manage Teams and
Responsibilities app.
Related Information
Approval Workflows in Your System
Supply Blocks in Sales Documents
Learn how to block supply-related activities in sales documents.
Use
You can make settings so that the system automatically sets a supply block for sales orders and sales orders without charge in specific
scenarios. This allows you to temporarily suspend all supply-related activities. These blocks can be helpful, for example, when you need
to clarify a price discrepancy or when a sales order or sales order without charge is incomplete. The system sets the supply block on
sales document header or item level and has the following implications:
The confirmed quantity in the sales document item is set to zero.
 Note
Warning: If you cancel a workflow, this will not change the status of
the business object. It will remain in status in approval.

---

The transfer of requirements to material requirement planning (MRP) is stopped.
The creation of a purchase requisition is deferred.
You can set up supply blocks in different ways:
Custom logic: The system sets a supply block according to the criteria that you define in the implementation of a Business Add-
In (BAdI). It indicates the supply block reason and the supply block status on item level. It then calculates the overall supply
block status on the sales document header.
API: For sales orders, you can provide a supply block reason for an item in the payload. The system then sets the supply block
status on item level and calculates the overall supply block status on the sales document header.
SAP Credit Management: The system sets the overall supply block status on the sales document header automatically
whenever a sales document is credit-blocked. All items inherit the supply block status.
Approval workflows for sales documents: The system sets the overall supply block status on the sales document header
automatically whenever a sales document is relevant for approval. All items inherit the supply block status.
For more information about how to set up supply blocks, see Configuration.
Before the system sets a supply block for a sales document, the overall supply block status on the header and the supply block status
in the items indicate that the sales document is not blocked, as shown in the following graphic:
 Tip
You can also combine the methods listed above. In this case, the cause for the supply block must be resolved for each method
independently. For example, if you have configured the system so that it sets a supply block for all sales documents that are credit-
blocked and all sales documents that are in approval, the credit block must be resolved and the sales document must be approved
before the system removes the supply block.

---

When the BAdI implementation finds that the criteria for setting a supply block reason are fulfilled or you provide a supply block reason
in an API payload, the system changes the supply block status in the affected items. It now indicates that the items are blocked. On
header level, the overall supply block status changes as follows:
It changes to blocked if there is a supply block on all items.
It changes to partially blocked if there is a supply block on one or more but not all items.
The following graphic illustrates this:
When a sales document becomes credit-blocked or relevant for approval, the system changes the overall supply block status in the
header. It now indicates that the entire sales document is blocked. On item level, the supply block status changes to blocked as well: It
inherits the information from the sales document header. The following graphic illustrates this:
The graphic is explained in the accompanying text.
Supply Blocks in Subitems
When you work with subitems (for example, with alternative-based confirmations in sales orders or bills of material), the logic works as
follows:
When the BAdI implementation finds that the criteria for setting a supply block reason are fulfilled or you provide a supply block reason
in an API payload, the system changes the supply block status in the affected main items. It now indicates that the items are blocked.
The system then copies the supply block reason from the main items to all subitems and changes their supply block status to blocked.
On header level, the overall supply block status changes as follows:
It changes to blocked if there is a supply block on all items.
It changes to partially blocked if there is a supply block on one or more but not all items.
The following graphic illustrates this:
The graphic is explained in the accompanying text.

---

Related Information
Custom Fields
Custom Logic
Business Add-Ins (BAdIs) for Sales Documents
Alternative-Based Confirmation in Sales Orders
Bills of Material in Sales Documents
Configuration
Learn how to configure supply blocks for sales documents.
1. Define Supply Block Reasons
This step is mandatory for BAdI implementations and APIs.
The system sets a supply block reason for every sales document item that should be blocked if you define this in your BAdI
implementation or provide the respective property in your payload.
As a configuration expert, you can define at least one supply block reason in the Define Supply Block Reasons for Sales
Document Items configuration activity.
2. Define Supply Block Criteria
You can set up supply blocks in different ways:
Custom logic: The system can set a supply block according to the criteria that you define. In this case, the system
indicates the supply block reason and in turn the supply block status on item level and then the overall supply block
status on header level.
As a developer, you can implement custom logic using the Modification of Sales Document in Finalize Phase before
Save (SD_SLS_FINALIZE) Business Add-In (BAdI).
In the SALESDOCUMENTITEMS_CHANGE changing parameter, you can use the
SalesDocItemSupplyBlockReason field to set a supply block reason.
For more information about this BAdI, see the SAP Business Accelerator Hub
For an example implementation, see Example.
SAP Credit Management: The system can set the supply block on the sales document header automatically whenever
a sales document is credit-blocked.
As a configuration expert, you can indicate in the Define Automatic Credit Control configuration activity that the effect
on supply should be a supply block for all sales documents that are credit-blocked.
Approval workflows for sales documents: The system can set the supply block on the sales document header
automatically whenever a sales document is relevant for approval.
As a configuration expert, you can indicate in the Assign Reasons for Approval Requests configuration activity for at
least one approval request reason that the system should set a supply block for all sales documents that are relevant for
 Note
Independent of the supply block, your configuration expert can indicate that the system should defer the creation of
purchase requisitions and set confirmed quantities to zero for sales documents that are credit-blocked in the same
configuration activity. Contrary to supply blocks, the system does not stop the transfer of requirements to material
requirement planning (MRP) with this option.

---

approval but not yet approved (that is, in approval, to be reworked, or rejected).
For more information about configuration environments, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.
Supply Blocks in Apps, APIs, CDS Views, BAdIs, and Output
Learn where you can work with supply blocks.
Apps
As an internal sales representative, you can see the supply block reason and statuses in apps. Depending on the app you're in, you
can, for example, filter for the overall supply block status on header level, display the overall supply block status on header level, or
display the supply block reason and the supply block status on item level. This is true, for example, for the following apps:
Manage Sales Orders
Manage Sales Orders - Version 2
Manage Sales Orders Without Charge - Version 2
Manage Sales Documents
Sales Order Fulfillment - Analyze and Resolve Issues
Track Sales Orders
Track Sales Order Details
APIs
As a developer, you can create, change, and read the supply block reason on item level and you can read the supply block status on
item level as well as the overall supply block status on header level using the following APIs:
Sales Order (A2X, OData V4) (SalesOrder)
Sales Order - Simulate (A2X, OData V4) (SalesOrderSimulation)
In the respective header entity, you can use the overall supply block status property (SlsDocOvrlSupplyBlockStatus). In the
respective item entity, you can use the supply block reason property (SalesDocItemSupplyBlockReason) and the supply block
status property (SlsDocItmOvrlSupplyBlockStatus).
CDS Views
 Note
Independent of the supply block, your configuration expert can indicate that the system should defer the creation of
purchase requisitions for sales documents in approval in the configuration activity Define Reasons for Approval
Requests. In the Assign Reasons for Approval Requests configuration activity, they can also indicate if confirmed
quantities should be set to zero for sales documents in approval. Contrary to supply blocks, the system does not stop
the transfer of requirements to material requirement planning (MRP) with these options.
 Note
In classic apps, like the Change Sales Orders - VA02 app, you can find the supply block reason in the schedule line section.

---

As a developer, you can read the overall supply block status on header level as well as the supply block reason and the supply block
status on item level using, for example, the following CDS views:
Sales Order (I_SalesOrder)
Sales Order Item (I_SalesOrderItem)
Data Extraction for Sales Document Item (C_SalesDocumentItemDEX_1)
Confirmation of Sales Orders - Query (C_SlsOrdConfAnlytsQry)
Business Add-Ins (BAdIs)
As a key user, you can set and read the supply block reason using the following BAdI:
Modification of Sales Document in Finalize Phase before Save (SD_SLS_FINALIZE)
In the SALESDOCUMENTITEMS_CHANGE changing parameter, you can use the SalesDocItemSupplyBlockReason field
to set a supply block reason.
In the SALESDOCUMENTITEMS importing parameter, you can use the SalesDocItemSupplyBlockReason field to read
the supply block reason.
You can read the overall supply block status on header level as well as the supply block reason and the supply block status on item
level using the following BAdI:
Modification of Custom Fields in Sales Documents at End of Finalize Phase Before Saving
(SD_SLS_END_OF_FINALIZE)
You can use the SlsDocOvrlSupplyBlockStatus field to read the overall supply block status on header level. You can
find this field in the SALESDOCUMENT returning parameter of the GET_SALESDOCUMENT method in the DATAPROVIDER
importing parameter.
You can use the SalesDocItemSupplyBlockReason field to read the supply block reason on item level and the
SlsDocItmOvrlSupplyBlockStatus field to read the supply block status on item level. You can find these fields in the
SALESDOCUMENTITEMS returning parameter of the GET_SALESDOCUMENTITEMS method in the DATAPROVIDER importing
parameter.
Output
As an extensibility specialist, you can use the overall supply block status on header level as well as the supply block reason and the
supply block status on item level in output.
You can add the overall supply block status on header level as well as the supply block status and supply block reason on item
level to the following custom output form templates:
FDP_V1_ORDER_CONFIRM_SRV (for sales orders)
SD_SLS_FDP_V1_ORDER_WO_CHARGE_SRV (for sales orders without charge)
As a configuration expert, you can then assign the custom form templates to the following output types:
ORDER_CONFIRMATION and ORDER_CONFIRMATION_CHANGE (for sales orders)
ORDER_WO_CHARGE and ORDER_WO_CHARGE_CHANGE (for sales orders without charge)
For more information, see How to Create and Use Custom Form Templates.

---

In the output relevance step of the Output Parameter Determination app, you can use the overall supply block status to define
output rules. For example, for sales orders, you can define that output is performed only when their overall supply block status is
not blocked. For more information, see Output Parameter Determination.
Example
Check an example of how supply blocks for sales documents can be used.
Use Case
In your company, you want the system to automatically set a supply block for all sales orders and sales orders without charge if the
following conditions are fulfilled:
The sold-to party is 1000101 or 1000102.
The Readiness Check field shows that an item is not yet ready to be processed.
Configuration, Custom Field, and Custom Logic
In the Define Supply Block Reasons for Sales Document Items configuration activity, your configuration expert Sally defines supply
block reason 02 (Clarification ongoing).
In the Custom Fields app, your extensibility specialist Paul creates a custom field for the Readiness Check
(yy1_ClarificationOngoing). Your end-users fill this field whenever an item is not yet ready to be processed. Paul defines value
101 (meaning clarification is ongoing). He also makes this field available in the Manage Sales Orders - Version 2 app.
In the Custom Logic app, Paul creates an implementation for the Modification of Sales Document in Finalize Phase before Save
BAdI that looks as follows:
Sales Order Processing
Your internal sales representative Sarah creates a sales order with one item for customer 1000101 in the Manage Sales Orders -
Version 2 app. The customer ordered 1,000 pieces of cookie jars. She still needs to clarify if she can give this customer an extra
discount, so she enters 101 in the Readiness Check field. She saves the sales order.
She can now see the following:
For the sales order item, the supply block status changes to Blocked. The supply block reason is displayed as Clarification
ongoing in the items table.
On the sales order header, the overall supply block status changes to Blocked.
The confirmed quantity for the item is 0.
CASE salesdocument-soldtoparty.
WHEN '0001000101' OR '0001000102'.
LOOP AT salesdocumentitems_change ASSIGNING FIELD-SYMBOL(<item>).
DATA(ls_itemdata) = salesdocumentitems[ salesdocumentitem = <item>-salesdocumentitem ].
DATA(lv_new_block) = COND #( WHEN ls_itemdata-yy1_ClarificationOngoing_sdi = '101' THEN '02
IF <item>-salesdocitemsupplyblockreason <> lv_new_block.
<item>-salesdocitemsupplyblockreason = lv_new_block.
<item>-control-salesdocitemsupplyblockreason = 'X'.
ENDIF.
ENDLOOP.
ENDCASE.

---

In the Manage Material Coverage (Version 2) app, she can see that no additional requirements for cookie jars were created.
The next day, Sarah learns that she can give the customer an additional 10% off. In the sales order, she adds a discount and removes
101 from the Readiness Check field. She saves the sales order.
She can now see the following:
For the sales order item, the supply block status changes to Not Blocked. The supply block reason is no longer displayed in the
items table.
On the sales order header, the overall supply block status changes to Not Blocked.
The confirmed quantity for the item is 1,000.
In the Manage Material Coverage (Version 2) app, she can see that additional requirements for cookie jars were created.
Electronic Payments in Sales Documents
You can process payments in sales documents.
Integration of the SAP Digital Payments Add-On
You can use digital payments in sales and billing documents, for example, in the Create Sales Orders - VA01, Change Sales Orders -
VA02, and Display Sales Orders - VA03 apps. These apps offer out-of-the-box integration with various payment service providers
(PSP) using the SAP digital payments add-on.
A tokenization approach avoids costs and risks: You do not need an additional Payment Card Industry (PCI) certification, and no
sensitive payment card data is stored in SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition, but in the SAP digital payments add-on. Whenever you
want to use a new customer payment card, you register this payment card in the SAP digital payments add-on. This creates a token
that is stored in SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition and used in every communication with the SAP digital payments add-on to identify
a payment card.
Process Flow
Neither sales order nor journal entry communicate directly with the acquirer, as shown in the following graphic. Both authorization and
settlement are processed by the SAP digital payments add-on.

---

Processing Payment Cards Using the SAP Digital Payments Add-On
Related Information
SAP Digital Payments Add-On
Create Sales Documents
Change Sales Documents
Display Sales Documents
Prerequisites
Make the necessary settings to use payments in sales documents.
Configuration
To be able to use payments in sales documents, your configuration expert must make the relevant settings for the SAP digital payments
add-on. For more information, see also scope item Digital Payments – Sales (1Z1
) in SAP Signavio Process Navigator.
1. Implement the SAP digital payments add-on. For more information, see SAP Digital Payments Add-On.
2. Make the settings that are required for the activation and the configuration of the SAP digital payments add-on in the following
configuration activities:
Activate SAP Digital Payments Add-On
Activate SAP Digital Payments Scenarios
Maintain Tax Codes for Posting Charges
3. Make the configuration that is required for using payments in sales documents with the following configuration activities:

---

Maintain Payment Card Plan Types
Specify Authorization Validity Periods
Define Checking Groups
Assign Checking Groups
For more information, see Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition
a. In the Maintain Payment Card Plan Types configuration activity, make sure that you assign payment card plan type 93
(for payment cards) to every sales document type you want to include in your payment process.
b. In the Specify Authorization Validity Periods configuration activity, you can specify the number of days that
authorizations are valid for each payment card type.
c. In the Assign Checking Groups configuration activity, make sure that checking group 01 is assigned to every sales
document type you want to include in your payment process. The checking group controls that an authorization horizon
is set for each sales document type.
Authorizations may sometimes expire before an order is delivered or billed. To reduce the chances that this will happen,
you usually don't want to authorize orders until just a few days before they are due for shipping or billing. The
authorization horizon specifies how many days before the material availability date the system triggers an authorization
request. The authorization horizon is set to 1 day. If a sales order is saved within the authorization horizon, the system
carries out authorization immediately. If a sales order is saved before the authorization horizon comes into effect,
payment cards can only be preauthorized.
4. In the Maintain Business Partner app, set the payment guarantee procedure for all business partners in the customer role for
which you want to process payments. To do so, open the sales and distribution data, display the billing data, and select the
value 0002 (payment cards) for the payment guarantee procedure.
If you do not set the payment guarantee procedure, payment cards can only be preauthorized. The data will also not be copied
into any subsequent documents.
Related Information
Maintain Business Partner
Payment Details
The electronic payment tab in the sales document header contains information about payment cards and external payments used for
the particular sales document. You usually edit this data in the sales order and display it in any subsequent documents.
In the sales document header, choose
More   Goto   Header   Electronic Payments
Structure
On the electronic payments tab, you can see information about the amount that you need to authorize:
Example
You create a sales order that contains material Material 1. The ATP check returns a material availability date that is
25 days from now. However, you don't want to charge the payment card today, as this affects your customer's credit
limit. The system performs a preauthorization which checks the validity of the name, address, and card number and
sets a low dummy amount for the authorized amount. 1 day before the material availability date, you can make a
dummy change in the sales order and save it or run a job to trigger the real authorization of the payment card.

---

The authorized amount
The total sales order value (net value plus tax)
The amount to be authorized for the next delivery or the next service, as well as the date of the next delivery or the next service
You can use these fields to process sales orders with multiple delivery dates.
You can also check the following information about the last authorization:
The requirement status
This status tells you whether the requirements for an authorization were met.
The call status
This status indicates whether the external system was successfully reached for authorization, and whether a response has been
received.
The response status
This status indicates the overall status of the authorization based on the responses sent back by the acquirer for all payment
cards in the sales order.
The authorization block
This lets you know whether the authorization has been blocked. The block can be set automatically by the system, for example
when checks carried out by the acquirer are unsuccessful. When you have solved the related problems, you can deselect the
indicator and reauthorize the payment.
A table contains payment card entries (or, for external payments, transaction entries) and authorization entries.
A payment card entry contains details about the payment card, such as the card type, the masked card number, the expiration
date, and the billing information.
A transaction entry for an external payment contains the transaction type, the transaction ID, the expiration date, the payer
name, the maximum amount, the status, and the authorized amount. The limit amount is set by default.
An authorization entry contains details about the authorization. You can easily recognize authorization entries by the status
traffic light.
You can also check whether a payment has already been settled in billing documents, that is, billed.
In the authorization log, you can track any changes of payment card authorizations.
Related Information
Authorization of Payment Cards
 Note
For payment cards, not all details can be changed here. For external payments, you cannot make any changes in apps in
general.
 Note
For both the payment card entry and the authorization entry, you can display more details, for example, about any preauthorization
or the G/L account.

---

Payment Cards
Payment Cards in Sales Orders
You can save one or more payment cards in the sales order and use it throughout the order-to-cash cycle.
In the sales order header, choose
More   Goto   Header   Electronic Payments
Sales Orders with one Payment Card
1. When you create a sales order, you can enter payment card data manually, or copy it from the payer master record.
To enter the data manually, you assign the payment card by registering it in the SAP digital payments add-on. As soon
as you have registered the payment card and confirmed your entries, a new entry with the relevant data is displayed in
the sales order. The system stores a card-specific token that is later used for authorization and settlement.
To use a card that is assigned to a business partner, use the value help to select a payment card.
You can enter multiple cards, or multiple authorizations on one card. The system automatically starts the authorization process
of the payment when you save the sales order. If the authorization is successful, the system creates a second entry where you
can see the authorized amount. The payment card number is never fully displayed in the system, it is always masked.
2. At a later time, you create the delivery. The authorization may have expired in the meantime, so the system checks to ensure
that it is still valid. If the authorization is no longer valid, the system gives you a warning (you can also check this in the log), and
you must reinitiate authorization in the sales order. You complete and save the delivery.
3. When all the items are picked, packed, and goods issue is posted, you create a billing document. The payment card data is
copied from the sales order. You process the billing document and release it to financial accounting.
When you release the billing document, the system copies the payment card information, the billing amount, and the authorization
information into the journal entry. In accounting, receivables are posted to a special cash clearing account for the acquirer.
Sales Orders with Multiple Payment Cards
When you use multiple payment cards, the maximum billing amount is important. This is the maximum amount that is authorized for the
respective payment card. You can leave the maximum amount in the sales order empty for only one payment card.
Changing Sales Orders with Payment Cards
In certain cases you have to make changes to sales orders that already contain payment cards.
The following examples are possible:
 Note
Splitting amounts between payment cards can result in rounding.
Example
A customer has ordered EUR 1000 worth of merchandise and told you to charge two payment cards. When you create the sales
order and enter the payment card data, you split the sales order amount between the two cards.
According to what the customer tells you about the limits on the different cards, you enter a EUR 400 maximum amount for one
card, and an unlimited amount for the other. The system authorizes EUR 400 and EUR 600 for the cards respectively and invoices
the transaction in the same way.

---

You add additional sales order items and need an additional authorization.
You change the order quantity and need a new authorization.
The authorization of a payment is denied and you must change the payment card data in the sales order.
You want to change the payment cards that are used for an order.
Payment Cards in Master Data
You can enter payment card data in the customer master record using the Manage Business Partner Master Data app. You register
the card with the SAP digital payments add-on once, and save it. Afterwards, you can select the card directly in the sales order for this
business partner.
Related Information
Manage Business Partner Master Data (F3163)
Authorization of Payment Cards
Any electronic payment must be authorized by the payment service provider (PSP).
When a customer orders a product and wants to pay using a payment card, approval for the amount of the transaction must be
obtained from the card holder's bank. It is checked whether the relevant amount can be charged or whether other impediments exist
Example
Your sales order contains item 10 with a value of EUR 200. You add item 20 with a value of EUR 50, thus increasing the
sales order value from EUR 200 to EUR 250. Once you save your sales order, the system sends a new authorization request
for the amount of EUR 50. The first authorization for EUR 200 remains valid and will be applied.
Example
Your sales order contains one item with a value of EUR 400. You change the quantity from 1 to 2, thus raising the value to
EUR 800. In the electronic payment details of the sales order, you select the authorization entry for EUR 400 in the table and
delete it. You save your sales order. This sends a cancellation request for the original amount to the SAP digital payments
add-on and triggers an authorization request for the new amount.
Example
You save your sales order, but the authorization of the payment card that the customer has asked you to use is denied. In
the electronic payment details of the sales order, you first select the authorization entry in the table and delete it. Only then
you're able to select the payment card entry and delete it, too. You assign another payment card that the customer has given
you and save the sales order to trigger a new authorization request.
Example
You have a sales order with several items and delivery dates. The customer has asked you to charge the amount for item 20
and item 30 to another payment card. In the electronic payment details of the sales order, you check whether the respective
amounts have already been settled in a billing document. This is not the case for item 20, so you delete the authorization
entry and the card entry, and assign a new card for this amount. However, item 30 has already been billed, which means you
can no longer delete the payment card. To make sure that the payment card is at least no longer used for any other open
amounts, you set the maximum amount for this card to the amount already billed. This ensures that the system will not take
the payment card into account when creating new billing documents.

---

(such as a blocked payment card).
The sales order sends an authorization request to the SAP digital payments add-on. Based on the card details, the relevant PSP is
determined, and the request is sent to the PSP in the appropriate format.
The PSP then processes the authorization and returns the result to the sales order via the SAP digital payments add-on.
An authorization or reauthorization of payment cards is triggered every time you save the sales order, if necessary.
Preauthorizations
Preauthorizations ensure that payment card data is correct. The system verifies the name, address, and card number.
If the material availability date or the billing date is outside the authorization horizon or if the ATP doesn't return a date, payment cards
can only be preauthorized. Preauthorization attempts are repeated until successful, or until the authorization horizon comes into effect.
The authorization horizon specifies how many days before the material availability date the system triggers an authorization request.
The authorization horizon is set to 1 day.
In this case, you don't want to charge the payment card immediately, as this affects your customer's credit limit. So, if the verification is
positive, a low dummy amount is reserved. If the reservation period comes to an end and no real authorization takes place, the
reservation is canceled.
You can use the Resolve Payment Card Issues - Schedule Job app to automatically check for documents that need to be authorized
and to trigger this authorization. You can also manually make a dummy change in the sales order and save it to trigger a single
authorization of the payment card.
Authorizations for Partial Shipments and Partial Payments
If you have a sales order with more than one item or schedule line, your delivery might be split up into partial deliveries. This usually
means that you need additional authorizations for any later delivery, as an authorization is only valid for one delivery.
Example
You create a sales order that contains material Material 1. The ATP check returns a material availability date that is 25 days from
now. The system performs a preauthorization. 1 day before the material availability date, you can make a dummy change in the
sales order and save it or run a job to trigger the real authorization of the payment card.
Example
Sales Order with One Scheduled Delivery Date
Your sales order 12345 contains 3 items with a scheduled delivery date of January 1, 2019:
Item
Amount to Be Charged
EUR 179
EUR 179
EUR 20
EUR 378
You save the sales order, and the system triggers an authorization for all three items and an amount of EUR 378. However, only
item 10 and 20 are delivered and billed together, separately from item 30, because the delivery date for item 30 changes. You then

---

Failed Authorizations
If an authorization is rejected or the authorization process fails, the system automatically sets a credit block on sales order header level.
This means that it is not possible to deliver the sales order.
You can display the overall credit status in the sales order header on the status tab.
You can use the Resolve Payment Card Issues - Schedule Job app to reauthorize the sales order. If the authorization attempt is
successful, the overall credit status is set to approved, and you can deliver the sales order.
Canceled Authorizations
You can cancel single payment card authorizations for changed orders so that authorizations for new sales orders for this customer are
not blocked by an exceeded credit limit caused by obsolete authorizations. To do so, select the respective authorization entry, and
delete it. The system sends a deletion request to the SAP digital payments add-on.
The system automatically sends a deletion request for the related authorizations in the following cases:
If a sales order is deleted
If a sales order is rejected with a rejection reason that is not relevant for billing
In the authorization log, you can also track any changes of payment card authorizations.
try to deliver item 30, but the authorization is insufficient, because it was already used up for items 10 and 20. You request an
additional authorization for the EUR 20 for item 30 using the Resolve Payment Card Issues - Schedule Job app. You use the
same billing document for all three items, and the final amount that the customer is billed is the original amount of EUR 378, not the
sum of the two authorization amounts.
Example
Sales Order with Various Scheduled Delivery Dates
Your sales order 67890 contains 2 items with different scheduled delivery dates:
Item
Amount to Be Charged
Scheduled Delivery Date
EUR 50
January 1, 2019
EUR 200
January 5, 2019
EUR 250
You save the sales order, and the system triggers an authorization for item 10 and an amount of EUR 50.
Before the delivery date for item 20, you request an additional authorization for the EUR 20 for item 30 using the Resolve Payment
Card Issues - Schedule Job app.
Note
This is done because one authorization is only valid for one delivery. If the authorization was requested for the total amount of EUR
250 and used up for item 10, you would still have to get an additional authorization for EUR 200 later. A total amount of EUR 450
would be reserved unnecessarily on the customer's payment card, meaning that the card might be refused for other sales orders
due to a consumed credit limit.

---

Payment Cards in Deliveries
Although no payment card information is stored in the delivery document, the system carries out a payment card check in the delivery. If
you create a delivery and an authorization in the sales order is expired, the system warns about this (you can also check this in the log).
In this case, you cannot post the goods issue. Make a dummy change in the preceding sales order, and save the sales order to trigger a
reauthorization. Afterwards, you can post the goods issue.
Payment Cards in Billing Documents
If an authorization is expired when you create a billing document, the payment card data is not copied into the billing document. In this
case, the system notifies you.
Make a dummy change in the preceding sales order, and save the sales order to trigger a reauthorization. Afterwards, you can bill the
sales order.
If you have already created a billing document, trigger a reauthorization in the sales order. Then try to post the billing document again.
Otherwise, the payment card data is not passed on to the journal entry and the payment card is not used for settlement.
Related Information
Resolve Payment Card Issues - Schedule Job
Electronic Payment Data in APIs
Process payment cards and external payments in sales orders with web services.
You can use several APIs to process both payment cards and external payments. External payments are payments made using
external channels, such as online or mobile payments systems, rather than payment cards. Online shops that are connected with the
SAP digital payments add-on can use this payment method.
You can create and process electronic payment data in sales orders using the following APIs:
Sales Order - Create, Read, Update, Delete (A2X)
Sales Order - Create, Update, Delete (A2A)
Sales Order - Send Processing Notification (A2A)
Together with the rest of the sales order data from the online shop, the related electronic payment data is transferred to your SAP
S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition system.
The type used for external payments is DP2P (PayPal two-step procedure), and the limit is always set automatically to the original
amount of the sales order that is transmitted.
For more information on external payments, see the relevant section in the user guide for the SAP digital payments add-on.
You can find these APIs on the SAP Business Accelerator Hub (https://api.sap.com
 Note
You can display the external payment data in sales orders in the electronic payment details, but you cannot edit this data (including
authorizations) in any apps.

---

Related Information
SAP Digital Payments Add-On
Sales Order (A2X, OData V2)
Sales Order (A2A)
Sales Order - Send Processing Notification (A2A)
Copying of Payment Card Data into Subsequent Return Documents
Include payment data in your returns document flow.
Copying of Payment Card Data into Subsequent Return Documents
You can set up the system to automatically copy payment card data (the payment card, including the card type and the masked credit
card number, and the authorization) from your sales order into subsequent documents (returns orders, credit memo requests, and credit
memos). Make sure that your configuration expert assigns the payment card plan type 03 (for payment cards) to every sales document
type that you want to be part of this copying process. For more information on the Maintain Payment Card Plan Types configuration
activity, see Prerequisites.
Payment Cards in Return Processes
If you enable the copying of payment card data into subsequent documents and a customer returns any ordered materials, the payment
data is copied into all relevant subsequent documents and the payment is refunded. The refund is made to the same payment card that
was charged earlier. Note that there is no additional authorization. The authorization that is copied from the sales order into subsequent
sales documents remains the unique reference for the payment.
The following figure shows examples of document flows that you can use in return processes. Note that you can only use standard
customer returns (sales document type CBAR) for this process:
Related Information
Claims, Returns, and Refund Management
 Note
If you don't want to automatically refund your customer on the payment card you used in the sales order, you can remove the
payment card data from the header of the returns order in the Manage Customer Returns app under Create Customer Return or
Change Customer Return. The change will be reflected in the subsequent credit memo request as well. You can also remove it
from the credit memo request directly. The payment card data can be found under
Goto   Header   Electronic Payments
in
the returns order and credit memo request.
 Note
If a returns order or credit memo request is created with reference to the initial sales order, the system would copy the entire
authorized amount from the sales order, even if the customer only returns a partial quantity of the ordered goods. The copied full
amount will be transferred to the subsequent credit memo, potentially leading to an excessive refund and the failed payment card
settlement. To avoid this, the system only allows you to create the returns order or credit memo request using the billing document
as a reference.

---

Resolve Payment Card Issues - Schedule Job
App ID: F2758
With this app, you can schedule jobs to process sales and distribution (SD) documents with payment cards that need authorization. The
documents are selected according to two criteria: One is that the document must still be open or in process. The other is that the next
date for electronic payments that you display, for example, in a sales order header, lies within the authorization horizon. This means that
the processing of the document becomes time-critical and a reauthorization must take place at this date. If only a preauthorization has
taken place before, the real authorization must occur now.
The selected documents are reauthorized in batch. You can also display, cancel, and copy these jobs.
Filtering Options
You can filter the job list by status, a given date range, by job ID, run ID, description, or the user ID of the user who created a job. You
can save your filter settings together with your view settings as a page variant and manage these saved page variants.
Job Details
You can view the details of a job by choosing the respective row. The job details vary according to how you set up the job. If you have
specified a recurrence (every day, for example) you can view the recurrence details here. Single run indicates that no recurrence has
been set.
Application Log
You can access the application log as follows:
From the log status field on the job details screen
By choosing the icon displayed in the log column of the application jobs list
Scheduling Jobs
You can create scheduling jobs to check for SD documents that are open and blocked for credit reasons. SAP delivers a default
template that you can use. You can also save your scheduling options as a new template.
Basic Scheduling Options
You can run the job immediately or schedule the job to run in the background. Note that you can reduce system load and processing
times by running jobs during periods when system usage is lower (at night, for example).
Parameter Selection
You can select parameters to determine which SD documents are to be included in your new job.
Organization data: You can specify a division, sales office, sales group, sales organization, and distribution channel.
Document info: You can select the next shipping date and next credit check as well as a specific SD document ID.
 Note
Jobs that are canceled before their start date do not appear in the application jobs list. Jobs that are canceled after the start date
and before the end date are shown in the list as canceled.

---

For a sales order, the next shipping date specifies the next planned delivery date. For a delivery, the field specifies the next
planned picking or goods issue date.
The next credit check is the date that the system stores if, during a dynamic credit check, some items or schedule lines in the
document lie outside the credit horizon. Use this field to check for documents whose dates lie within the authorization horizon.
Status of last authorization: You can specify the requirement status, the call status, the response, and the overall credit status.
The requirement status indicates whether an SD document has met the authorization requirements. It can either be not relevant,
requirement met (in which case the system authorizes a sales order when you save it), or requirement not met (in which case
the system blocks authorization).
The call status indicates whether the external system was successfully reached for authorization, and if a response has been
received.
The response indicates the overall status of the authorization based on the responses sent back by the clearing house for the
various cards in the payment card plan (checks successful, unsuccessful: authorize later, or unsuccessful: block authorization).
General: You can choose if you want to write an application log and specify how many days this application log is available in
the system.
Once you have defined all relevant parameters, you can check if the specified data is correct and schedule the job. The new job is then
displayed in the application jobs list.
If you want to schedule a job that is similar to an existing job, you can copy an existing job and edit the copy as required. All
parameters, including the recurrence, are copied.
Supported Device Types
Desktop
Tablet
Related Information
Application Jobs
Resolve Payment Card Issues - Reauthorizations
Example
You want to select all sales orders whose dates lie within the authorization horizon. For the next check, you select today's date or
past dates. Only open sales orders are selected.
Example
You want to check for any SD documents that have been blocked, independent of the date. For the overall credit status, you select
the value B. This value indicates that a credit check was executed, but the document was not OK.
 Note
If you choose immediate creation, the final status may not be visible immediately (depending on the processing times). Please
refresh after a few moments to see the final status of the job. You can't make changes to a scheduled job once it has been created.
If you need to change a scheduled job, you can cancel it from the application job screen if it has not run yet.

---

App ID: F4793
With this app, you can search for and filter sales orders and their subsequent outbound deliveries with payment cards that need to be
authorized again and trigger this reauthorization.
Key Features
You can use this app to do the following:
Adapt your views or use the predefined page variants
Display and search through a list of sales orders by using filters
Display payment details and payment card data for each sales order in the list
Trigger reauthorizations of payment cards for sales orders individually or in one go
Navigate to the Display Sales Orders app
Navigate to object pages of sales orders and outbound deliveries
Navigate to the page that displays the documented credit decision (if any)
Navigate to the customer object page, as well as the Customer – 360° View and Customers Overview apps
Export the list of sales orders to a spreadsheet file (*.XLSX format)
Predefined Page Variants
You can use the following predefined page variants:
Sales Orders with Deliveries
This variant filters all sales orders for which deliveries have been created. In addition, delivery-related filters and table columns
are displayed by default.
Sales Orders with Failed Authorizations
This variant filters all sales orders in which the payment card status is set to Not Approved.
Sales Orders with Preauthorizations
This variant filters all sales orders in which the payment card is preauthorized.
Sales Orders without Deliveries
This variant filters all sales orders for which no deliveries have been created.
Reauthorization of Payment Cards
When you reauthorize the payment card, the system makes a dummy change in the sales order and saves it to trigger an authorization
of the payment card again.
You can trigger the reauthorization of payment cards in multiple sales orders at one time.
 Tip
The system works best when you choose a maximum of 20 sales orders to perform the reauthorization.

---

Displaying Documented Credit Decisions
If the system created a documented credit decision for a sales order or its subsequent outbound delivery that fails the overall credit limit
check, you can navigate to the documented credit decision by performing the following:
1. Use credit status to filter your search result for the credit blocked sales order or outbound delivery.
2. Choose the document ID and then the navigation link.
Supported Device Types
Desktop
Tablet
Related Information
Authorization of Payment Cards
Profit Centers in Sales Documents
How profit centers are used in sales documents.
A profit center is an organizational unit in Accounting that reflects a management-oriented structure of the organization for the purpose
of internal control.
Profit centers can be structured according to various dimensions, such as product groups, customer groups, sales regions, or
distribution channels. You can divide your business into profit centers to better analyze costs and revenues.
Related Information
Profit Center Determination
Substitution/Validation Rules for Sales Documents
Profit Center Determination
To ensure an efficient and market-oriented organization, profit centers can be structured according to various dimensions like product
groups, customer groups, sales regions or distribution channels. Therefore, it needs to be possible to derive the profit center in the
sales process from the multiple dimensions in the sales quote, sales contract, sales order, or sales order item and not only from the
material master. In addition, it needs to be ensured that the profit center remains consistent along the process chain and does not get
overwritten in subsequent processes like in the billing document request (BDR) or during invoice creation.
Prerequisites
To ensure consistency along the process chain, you need to make sure the following prerequisites are met for flexible profit center
determination:
Flexible profit center determination is only allowed during the initial object creation (for example, sales order creation) and
should then remain stable along the process chain (BDR, invoice etc.) to avoid inconsistencies.

---

Profit center substitution, at the time of the journal entry creation is not allowed as this could lead to inconsistencies. That
means, it's only possible to derive a profit center during the sales object creation and replace a profit center at posting time.
It's not possible to change the profit center if journal entries have already been posted.
The profit center defined in the sales order item is copied to the follow-up documents (for example, debit memo request (DMR)),
and can therefore not be changed anymore.
Profit Center Determination in Sales Documents
The profit center is derived in the following access sequence:
1. If a CO object is maintained in a sales document (for example, orders or WBS elements), the profit center for the sales
document is derived from the CO object. This ensures that the costs and revenues are taken from the same CO object.
2. The profit center is assigned manually or derived via an API. This also applies for account assignment objects CO-EO and CO-
VB.
3. The profit center is derived from the substitution rules that are maintained in the app Manage Substitution/Validation Rules –
Journal Entries (F4406). See also, Substitution/Validation Rules for Sales Documents and Manage Substitution/Validation
Rules.
Selecting the option Overwrite during rule creation has the following effects:
The Overwrite flag is set:
The profit center that was assigned manually or via an API (see 2.) will be overwritten by the value defined in the substitution
rule.
The Overwrite flag is not set:
a. If there is no profit center maintained manually or derived via an API (see 2.), the profit center from the substitution rule is
derived.
b. If there is a profit center maintained manually or derived via an API (see 2.), the substitution rule will be ignored (see 3.).
4. The default profit center is derived based on the plant and material.
Related Information
Substitution/Validation Rules for Sales Documents
Manage Substitution/Validation Rules
Substitution/Validation Rules for Sales Documents
You can create substitution rules to determine the profit center for sales documents.
Make the following selections in the app Manage Substitution/Validation Rules - Journal Entries (F4406) if you want to create
substitution rules for a profit center in Sales:
 Note
This method always takes priority over all other profit center determination methods.
 Note
This is not applicable for the account assignment objects profitability segment (CO-EO) and sales order (CO-VB).

---

Context: Profit Center Derivation in Sales Documents
Events:
Sell from Stock and Advanced Intercompany Sales Process
Intercompany Sales Process
Available Fields
You can create substitution rules in the app Manage Substitution/Validation Rules - Journal Entries for the following fields using the
context Profit Center Derivation in Sales Documents:
Target Field
Description
ProfitCenter
Profit Center
Related Information
Profit Center Determination
Authorization Concept
Authorization Concept
Access to Manage Substitution/Validation Rules
As a configuration expert for the Sales area, to access the app Manage Substitution/Validation Rules - Journal Entries from the
SAP Fiori launchpad, you must have a business role that contains the business catalog Journal Entry - Configuration
(SAP_CA_BC_GL_JE_CONFIG_PC). SAP delivers the Configuration Expert - Business Process Configuration
(SAP_BR_BPC_EXPERT) business role template for your reference.
Related Information
IAM Administration Apps
Manage Substitution/Validation Rules
App ID: F4406
With this app, you can display, change, and create substitution and validation rules for your selected business contexts and events.
These rules can be used in the respective business processes to validate, derive, or replace values at the time of entry for the relevant
fields.
Key Features
The app provides the following key features:
Create Validation Rules
Create Substitution Rules

---

Change Rules
Display Rules
Applicable Business Contexts
You manage substitution and validation rules by business context. A context represents the circumstances in which the validations and
substitutions are defined and applied. It determines the fields or functions that are available in the rule definition. The following business
contexts are supported for rule definition:
Solution Area
Business Contexts
Substitution/Validation
App Variant
Context-Specific
Documentation
Management Accounting
and Margin Analysis
Market Segment
Substitution rules only
Manage
Substitution/Validation
Rules - Journal Entries
Rules for Substitution
Management Accounting
and Margin Analysis
Financial Planning
Both rules
Manage
Substitution/Validation
Rules - Journal Entries
Substitution/Validation
Rules for Financial
Planning
General Ledger
Accounting
Journal Entry
Journal Entry Item
Coding Block
Both rules
Manage
Substitution/Validation
Rules - Journal Entries
Rules for
Substitution/Validation
Joint Venture Accounting
Journal Entry Item
Coding Block
Both rules
Manage
Substitution/Validation
Rules - Journal Entries
Rules for
Substitution/Validation
(JVA)
Treasury Management
For more information, see
context-specific
documentation.
Substitution rules only
Financial Objects
Substitution
Rules - Market
Risk Data
Financial Objects
Substitution
Rules - Default
Risk Data
Account
Assignment
References -
OTC
Transactions
(Substitution
Rules)
Account
Assignment
References -
Securities
(Substitution
Rules)
Account
Assignment
References -
Exposure
Financial Objects
Substitution
Rules - Market
Risk Data
Financial Objects
Substitution
Rules - Default
Risk Data
Account
Assignment
References -
OTC
Transactions
(Substitution
Rules)
Account
Assignment
References -
Securities
(Substitution
Rules)
Account
Assignment
References -
Exposure

---

Solution Area
Business Contexts
Substitution/Validation
App Variant
Context-Specific
Documentation
Subitems
(Substitution
Rules)
Define
Substitution
Rules for
Exposure
Position Fields
Additional
Account
Assignments -
Substitution
Rules
Substitution
Rules for
Planning Levels -
Treasury Flows
Payment Reason
Determination -
Security Account
and Transaction
Management
Subitems
(Substitution
Rules)
Define
Substitution
Rules for
Exposure
Position Fields
Additional
Account
Assignments -
Substitution
Rules
Substitution
Rules for
Planning Levels -
Treasury Flows
Automatic
Payment Reason
Determination –
Securities
Account and
Transaction
Management
Service
Service Document
Substitution rules only
Manage
Substitution/Validation
Rules - Service
Documents (F7818)
Manage
Substitution/Validation
Rules - Service
Documents
Public Sector
Management
For more information, see
context-specific
documentation.
Both rules
Manage Substitution and
Validation for Public
Sector
(F7603)
Rules for Substitution and
Validation in PSM
Sales
Profit Center Derivation
in Sales Documents
Substitution rules only
Manage
Substitution/Validation
Rules - Journal Entries
Substitution/Validation
Rules for Sales
Documents
Apply Rules at Runtime
At runtime, business users make postings or record data using various apps, such as the Post General Journal Entries app. Based on
the respective context and event, your defined rules apply automatically as follows:
 Note
The applicable business contexts are defined by SAP and cannot be changed. However, you can create your own fields for these
contexts and these custom fields are supported by the Manage Substitution/Validation Rules app. For more information about
custom field creation, see Custom Fields.

---

Substitution: Derives, replaces, or clears values for the relevant fields or functions defined in the substitution rules. The
substitutions take place at the time of data entry with no system messages.
Validation: Validates the values entered for the relevant fields or functions defined in the validation rules. Depending on the
Control Level of each validation rule, a warning or an error message is raised when a value entered doesn't comply with the
rule. As a key user, you can customize the message that is displayed to meet the business context of the end user. Note:
A warning message is indicated by the  icon. A warning doesn't prevent users from completing their postings.
An error message is indicated by the  icon. Users must solve the error in order to complete their postings.
For more information, see Setting Up Messages for Validation Rules.
Supported Device Types
Desktop
Tablet
Information for Key Users
The SAP Fiori apps reference library has details about the content necessary for giving users access to an app on the SAP Fiori
launchpad. To see this app’s Fiori content, go to the SAP Fiori apps reference library
and search for the app. Then select the
product. On the Implementation Information tab, select the correct release. The details are in the Configuration section.
Related Information
Custom Fields
SAP Community Blog: How to extend a custom field and derive the value using the Manage Substitution/Validation Rules app?
Create Validation Rules
Validation rules are used to check values as they are being entered in runtime applications. Follow the procedure below to create a
validation rule:
1. Choose Create Rule.
2. In the dialog box that appears, choose a context and an event, then select Validation Rule as the rule type.
 Note
To navigate to the rule display, the business users must have the necessary authorization. For more information, see Authorization
Concept.
 Note
This app contains in-app help for key fields and concepts. To display the help while working in the app, press F1 or choose the
question mark displayed in the app header.
 Note

---

3. The detail input page is divided into three sections: General Information, Precondition, and Validation. In the General
Information section, do the following:
a. Specify a rule name and a meaningful description.
b. Choose a control level, Error or Warning. It controls how strict the validation rule is. When data fails the validation at
runtime, the system responds differently as follows:
Error: The system displays an error message and prevents users from completing the posting until they correct
the erroneous entries.
Warning: The system displays a warning message but doesn't prevent users from completing the posting.
For more information, see Setting Up Messages for Validation Rules.
4. In the Precondition and Validation sections, conditions can be specified in the following way:
a. For each individual condition line, a field or function has to be selected specifying the value to be checked (left side of
the condition). In the Field/Function dialog a list of directly available fields, as well as additional fields from associated
data sources, are displayed. A set of either SAP or customer defined functions is available.
b. In the second step the compare operator has to be selected which is used to validate the given value selected in the first
step. The following compare operators are available:
= Equal To, ≠ Not Equal To, > Greater Than,< Less Than, ≥ Greater Than or Equal To,≤ Less Than or Equal
To. The value of the selected field/function is compared to a constant value with the given compare operator. If
available a dedicated value help dialog is displayed.
≤…≤ Between. Check if the value of the selected field/function is in a given constant value range.
Is empty, Is not empty. Check if the selected field/function is empty, for example, contains/returns an initial
value.
= Equal To Field/Function, ≠ Not Equal To Field/Function. The value of the selected field/function is compared
to the value provided by a different field/function.
= Equal To Table Lookup, ≠ Not Equal To Table Lookup. The value of the selected field/function is compared
to the value provided by a database select on a Custom Business Object.
Matches. The value provided by the selected field/function is matched against a regular expression that is based
on the POSIX standard 1003.2
∈ Included in Hierarchy, ∉ Not Included in Hierarchy (Only available in events Journal Entry Item and Coding
Block ). Check if the value of the selected field/function is included / not included in a specific global hierarchy or
the sub-hierarchy below a node in a global hierarchy. In the displayed hierarchy value help dialog, the available
hierarchies and their internal hierarchy nodes can be selected. If the specified hierarchy or the node is not
available at runtime of the rule, the condition '∈ Included in Hierarchy' always evaluates to FALSE, the condition
'∉ Not Included in Hierarchy' always evaluates toTRUE. For the maintenance of global hierarchies, check the
Manage Global Hierarchies app.
The available contexts and events are defined by SAP. Context determines which fields can be included in the rule definition.
Event specifies the exact time and location for the validation to occur, for example, when users execute a particular step in a
business process.
 Note
Currently only Cost Center and GL Account Hierarchies are available
Like the GL Accounts themselves, GL Account Hierarchies are defined within a given Chart of Accounts. For each
Company Code a Standard Chart of Accounts is configured. When rules defined in the Substitution/Validation

---

A complex condition can be created by creating several such individual condition line. By default, all individual lines are
connected into one big condition using AND. If several individual condition lines access the same field/function on the left side of
the condition, these lines are connected by OR if the equal to operator is used.
The action Show Script at the top can be used to display a comprehensive script of the defined rule including the possibly
complex conditions.
5. You can define fields or functions as conditions or statements in the Precondition and Validation sections. The following
functions are predelivered by SAP:
a. CONCATENATE
Use this function to concatenate a sequence of field values or constants.
b. SUBSTRING
Use this function to calculate a substring of a given input string. It consists of three parameters:
i. STRING
The parameter string is a mandatory input value.
ii. OFFSET
This parameter is optional. The character offset in the input string must be a positive integer and only literal
values are allowed. 0 is the default offset. If the given offset is too long for a specific input, an empty string is
returned.
iii. LENGTH
The length of the substring must be a positive integer. Only literal values are allowed.
6. You can also define your own functions using the Custom Function interface (IF_FIN_RE_CUSTOM_FUNCTION). For more
information, see Developer Extensibility.
7. In the Precondition section, set one or more conditions for the validation to take place.
If the conditions are met, the values entered for the relevant fields or functions are to be checked based on the check
statements defined in the Validation section.
If the conditions are not met, the values entered are not subject to the validation.
If you leave this section empty, the values entered are always to be checked.
rule tool are executed, this Standard Chart of Accounts for the current company code is used to perform the IN
HIERARCHY condition validation.
For example, if the  GL Account Hierarchies defined in the Standard Chart of Accounts of one company code are
not visible when processing postings in company codes using a different chart of accounts, the following may occur:
IN HIERARCHY conditions accessing these GL Account Hierarchies will always evaluate to FALSE if
processed in company codes using a differing chart of accounts.
NOT IN HIERARCHY conditions accessing these GL Account Hierarchies will always evaluate to TRUE if
processed in company codes using a differing chart of accounts.
Cost Center Hierarchies are maintained with a validity period. When IN HIERARCHY conditions are evaluated as
part of the posting process, the field Posting Date is used to check the validity period of the referenced Cost Center
Hierarchy. If the posting date is not in the validity period of the referenced Cost Center Hierarchy, a IN
HIERARCHY condition always evaluates to FALSE, likewise a NOT IN HIERARCHY condition always evaluates to
TRUE.

---

8. In the Validation section, define one or more check statements using Field, Operator, and Value.
Note that the relationships between conditions (or statements) are as follows:
Filters for different fields or functions have an AND logic between each other.
Filters for a same field or function have an OR logic between each other. There is an exception: Filters using a negative
operator, such as Not equal to, have an AND logic with the filters that use positive operators.
9. Save the rule. The rule now has the status New. You must activate the rule before applying it at runtime. For more information
about various rule statuses, see Change Rules.
Matches Operator
When defining validation rules and the Precondition part of substitution rules, you can use the Matches comparison operator to match
a string-type field value against a regular expression that is based on the POSIX standard 1003.2. A regular expression is made up of
literal characters and special characters following the syntax of regular expressions. It provides a concise and flexible means to
represent a set of character strings.
For example, you can define the following validation rule using the Matches operator:
Section
Field
Operator
Value (Regular Expression)
Precondition
ProjectExternalId
Matches
12345.*
Validation
CostCenter
Matches
[A-Z][A-Z]
[[:digit:]]*999999
When a project ID starts with 12345, the rule requires that the cost center value starts with two capital letters and be followed by a
number that ends with 999999.
For more information about how to write regular expressions, see Syntax of Regular Expressions.
Setting Up Messages for Validation Rules
Example
This example is based on the Journal Entry Item Business Context. The following rule requires when a business user posts
data using the G/L account between 4164000 and 41649999 for the company code 1000 that the cost center is between
200 and 300 but not equal to 210, and the distribution channel is 01:
Section
Field
Operator
Value
Precondition
GLAccount
Between
41640000 And 41649999
CompanyCode
Equal to
Validation
CostCenter
Between
200 And 300
CostCenter
Not equal to
DistributionChannel
Equal to

---

When defining validation rules, you can specify the messages that you want the system to display when a validation leads to a negative
result.
For the message type, you can choose from the following options:
Error: The system displays an error message and prevents users from completing the posting until they correct the erroneous
entries.
Warning: The system displays a warning message but doesn't prevent users from completing the posting
In addition, you can either use messages that are delivered by SAP or you can create your own message classes.
Activities
To set a message for a new or an existing validation rule, proceed as follows:
1. Go to the Manage Substitution / Validation Rules app and select your rule in Edit mode.
2. On the General Information tab, under Control Level select Warning or Error. A standard message pattern is displayed.
3. To change the default message text, open the value help of the Message field. If you want to select a message from the
message class delivered by SAP, select message class FINRE_UI_STD. Then select a suitable message number from the
available messages.
To make the messages more specific, you can use the placeholders for each of these default messages to be included in the
relevant error/warning message. For all variable placeholders, you can either use a constant value or a value provided by a field
or function.
If you want to use your own message class and messages, select the relevant message class from the value help for the
Message field as shown in the following screenshot. Please note that the screenshot is only available in English.
The screenshot shows the dialog box for the Message field. In the example, the selected message class
“Z_CUSTOMER_MESSAGES” and message number 2 are shown. Parameter 1 is filled with a value for a field/function and
parameter 2 is filled with a constant value. Parameters 3 and for are empty.
4. Save your entries.
Creating Your Own Message Class and Messages
If you are working in a 3-system landscape, you can create your own message class and messages that you can then use as error or
warning messages.
You create custom message classes using ABAP Development Tools (ADT). For more information, see Getting Started as a Developer
in the ABAP Environment.
For a detailed description on how to create and maintain messages, see https://help.sap.com/docs/abap-cloud/abap-development-
You can translate your custom messages into other languages using the Maintain Translations app. For more information, see Maintain
Translations.
Related Information
Configuration Environment in a 3-System Landscape
 Note
The values that you enter are not translated in other languages.

---

Create Substitution Rules
Substitution rules are used to replace or derive values when values are being entered in runtime applications. Follow the procedure
below to create a substitution rule:
1. Choose Create Rule.
2. In the dialog box that appears, choose a context and a event, then select Substitution Rule as the rule type.
3. The detail input page is divided into three sections: General Information, Precondition, and Substitution. In the General
Information section, specify a rule name and a meaningful description.
4. In the Precondition section, conditions can be specified in the following way:
a. For each individual condition line, a field or function has to be selected specifying the value to be checked (left side of
the condition). In the Field/Function dialog a list of directly available fields, as well as additional fields from associated
data sources, are displayed. A set of either SAP or customer defined functions is available.
b. In the second step the compare operator has to be selected which is used to validate the given value selected in the first
step. The following compare operators are available:
= Equal To, ≠ Not Equal To, > Greater Than,< Less Than, ≥ Greater Than or Equal To,≤ Less Than or Equal
To. The value of the selected field/function is compared to a constant value with the given compare operator. If
available a dedicated value help dialog is displayed.
≤…≤ Between. Check if the value of the selected field/function is in a given constant value range.
Is empty, Is not empty. Check if the selected field/function is empty, for example, contains/returns an initial
value.
= Equal To Field/Function, ≠ Not Equal To Field/Function. The value of the selected field/function is compared
to the value provided by a different field/function.
= Equal To Table Lookup, ≠ Not Equal To Table Lookup. The value of the selected field/function is compared
to the value provided by a database select on a Custom Business Object.
Matches. The value provided by the selected field/function is matched against a regular expression that is based
on the POSIX standard 1003.2
∈ Included in Hierarchy, ∉ Not Included in Hierarchy (Only available in events Journal Entry Item and Coding
Block ). Check if the value of the selected field/function is included / not included in a specific global hierarchy or
the sub-hierarchy below a node in a global hierarchy. In the displayed hierarchy value help dialog, the available
hierarchies and their internal hierarchy nodes can be selected. If the specified hierarchy or the node is not
available at runtime of the rule, the condition '∈ Included in Hierarchy' always evaluates to FALSE, the condition
'∉ Not Included in Hierarchy' always evaluates toTRUE. For the maintenance of global hierarchies, check the
Manage Global Hierarchies app.
 Note
The available contexts and events are defined by SAP. Context determines which fields can be included in the rule definition.
Event specifies the exact time and location for the substitution to occur, for example, when users execute a particular step in
a business process.
 Note
Currently only Cost Center and GL Account Hierarchies are available
Like the GL Accounts themselves, GL Account Hierarchies are defined within a given Chart of Accounts. For each
Company Code a Standard Chart of Accounts is configured. When rules defined in the Substitution/Validation

---

A complex condition can be created by creating several such individual condition line. By default, all individual lines are
connected into one big condition using AND. If several individual condition lines access the same field/function on the left side of
the condition, these lines are connected by OR if the equal to operator is used.
The action Show Script at the top can be used to display a comprehensive script of the defined rule including the possibly
complex conditions.
5. You can define fields or functions as conditions or statements in the Precondition and Substitution sections. The following
functions are predelivered by SAP:
a. CONCATENATE
Use this function to concatenate a sequence of field values or constants.
b. SUBSTRING
Use this function to calculate a substring of a given input string. It consists of three parameters:
i. STRING
The parameter string is a mandatory input value.
ii. OFFSET
This parameter is optional. The character offset in the input string must be a positive integer and only literal
values are allowed. 0 is the default offset. If the given offset is too long for a specific input, an empty string is
returned.
iii. LENGTH
The length of the substring must be a positive integer. Only literal values are allowed.
You can also define your own functions using the Custom Function interface (IF_FIN_RE_CUSTOM_FUNCTION). For more
information, see Developer Extensibility.
6. In the Precondition section, set one or more conditions for the substitution to take place.
If the conditions are met, values for the relevant fields or functions are substituted based on substitution lines defined in
the Substitution section.
If the conditions are not met, values are not substituted.
If you leave this section empty, values for the relevant fields or functions are always to be substituted.
rule tool are executed, this Standard Chart of Accounts for the current company code is used to perform the IN
HIERARCHY condition validation.
For example, if the  GL Account Hierarchies defined in the Standard Chart of Accounts of one company code are
not visible when processing postings in company codes using a different chart of accounts, the following may occur:
IN HIERARCHY conditions accessing these GL Account Hierarchies will always evaluate to FALSE if
processed in company codes using a differing chart of accounts.
NOT IN HIERARCHY conditions accessing these GL Account Hierarchies will always evaluate to TRUE if
processed in company codes using a differing chart of accounts.
Cost Center Hierarchies are maintained with a validity period. When IN HIERARCHY conditions are evaluated as
part of the posting process, the field Posting Date is used to check the validity period of the referenced Cost Center
Hierarchy. If the posting date is not in the validity period of the referenced Cost Center Hierarchy, a IN
HIERARCHY condition always evaluates to FALSE, likewise a NOT IN HIERARCHY condition always evaluates to
TRUE.

---

Note that the relationships between conditions are as follows:
Filters for different fields or functions have an AND logic between each other.
Filters for a same field or function have an OR logic between each other. There is an exception: Filters using a negative
operator, such as Not equal to, have an AND logic with the filters that use positive operators.
7. In the Substitution section, define one or more substitution lines with the following settings:
Target Field: Select a field whose values are to be substituted.
Substitution Type: Select how the values for the target field are to be substituted. You can choose from the following
types:
Clear value: Clears any existing value for the target field.
Substitute with Constant: Fills in the target field or replaces its existing value with a constant value.
Substitute with Field / Function: Fills in the target field or replaces its existing value with the value from the
source field or source function.
Table Lookup: Looks in a custom business object and uses the value to either substitute a target field or to use
the value in a comparison condition. For more information, see Table Lookup.
Source: Depending on your selected substitution type, either enter a constant value or select a source field or source
function whose value is to substitute the target field.
Overwrite: Select the checkbox if you want to overwrite any existing value of the target field with the value you specified
in Source. If you want to keep any existing value of the target field, leave the checkbox unselected.
 Note
When defining a filter condition, you can use the Matches operator to compare a field value with a text string represented
with a regular expression. For more information, see Matches Operator.
 Note
Depending on the business context setting, some fields cannot be overwritten. In this case, the checkbox is disabled.
Example
When a business user uses the billing document type F1 to post data for the company code 1000, the following rule fills in
the Product Sold Group field with the value A001 and the Functional Area field with the value from the Functional Area
field of the relevant WBS element:
Section
Field
Operator
Value
Precondition
BillingDocumentType
Equal to
F1
CompanyCode
Equal to
Section
Target Field
Substitution Type
Source
Substitution
SoldProductGroup
Substitute with Constant
A001

---

8. Save the rule. The rule now has the status New. You must activate the rule before applying it at runtime. For more information
about various rule statuses, see Change Rules.
Change Rules
For an existing validation or substitution rule, you can edit, activate, disable, or delete it.
When editing a rule, a draft of the rule is generated. Any changes are first saved to the draft and can only be saved to the active version
of the rule after you activate the draft. The possible actions to a rule or its draft are as follows:
Edit new rule: After creation, a rule has the New status. You can continue editing the rule, the New status is kept.
Activate new rule: You can activate a new rule so that it has the Active status.
Edit draft or active rule: After activation, when you choose Edit for the rule for the first time, a draft is generated. Any changes
you made thereafter are first saved to the draft. The rule displays as the Active status with a  Draft changed by: <user
name> link underneath. For this kind of rule, you can take either of the following actions:
Edit the draft again by choosing the draft link and making changes. Draft rules have the Modified status.
Activate the draft by choosing Activate. The draft rule changes to the Active status and overwrites the original active
version.
Edit the active rule by choosing the row or the arrow icon (), it will discard the existing draft and generate a new draft.
Any changes are saved to the new draft.
Disable rule: You can disable an active rule so that it cannot be used in validation or substitution until you activate it again. The
rule status changes to Disabled. This is useful if you want to invalidate a rule temporarily.
Delete rule: You can delete a draft or an active rule. Note that when deleting an active rule, its draft version is also deleted.
Display Rules
View available rules on the list page or navigate to the detail screen of a rule.
Section
Target Field
Substitution Type
Source
FunctionalArea
Substitute with Field
/Function
...\_WBSElementBasicData-
FunctionalArea
 Tip
You can also create a rule by copying from an existing one and making any necessary changes.
 Note
Only active rules can be used in validation or substitution at runtime.
 Note
To ensure auditability, the system keeps track of all changes to the substitution and validation rules on a database table level. The
user names and the timestamps of the changes are also persisted.

---

You can view all your available rules on the list page or navigate to the detail screen of a rule. When doing so, you have the following
options:
Search for Rules
Personalize List Layout
Show Rule Execution Sequence
Check Rule Errors
Show Rule Script
Search for Rules
You can search for specific rules as follows:
In the Search field, enter the text contained in the rule name and description.
Use various filters available in Adapt Filters.
In the Search by Field dialog, select the precondition fields or functions, validation fields or functions, or substitution fields or
functions contained in the rules.
Personalize List Layout
The rule list displays all substitution and validation rules of the supported contexts and events. You can choose Settings ( icon) to
personalize the list layout. For example, you can add or remove columns, group by Context or Event, and sort your selected columns
in ascending or descending order. You can also save your personalized settings to a new view, set the new view as default, and select
Apply Automatically for the view.
Show Rule Execution Sequence
During runtime, the available rules for a given event are run in a certain sequence. This execution sequence is determined automatically
by the system. To check the sequence, choose Analyze Rules on the list page. In the dialog box that appears, specify an event and
choose Go. The rules are listed in the Enabled Rules tab in prioritized order, that is, the rules to be applied first are listed first.
Generally, rules that can change field values are run before the rules that only read the field values. However, the following conflicts
between rules can occur when determining the sequence:
Two or more rules could change values for the same field. These rules are run in alphabetical order of the rule name.
One rule reads the value of field A and fills field B with a value, while a different rule reads the value of field B and fills field A with
a value. In this case, the execution sequence cannot be determined, and an error is raised.
Check Rule Errors
When activating a rule, the system checks if your input is correct or complete for that single rule. However, conflicts between rules aren't
raised at this point.
 Note
The execution sequence of rules that don't have a logical dependency is undefined and cannot be influenced.

---

To check rule conflicts, choose Analyze Rules on the list page. In the dialog box that appears, specify an event and choose Go. The
errors and warnings are listed in the Messages tab.
Show Rule Script
For a created rule, you can choose Show Script to convert its conditions and validations or substitutions to a script with logic in a
format that is both processable by computer and comprehensible to humans. This is especially helpful for complex rules.
Transport Rules
You configure substitution and validation rules in your configuration environment. An administrator, who has been assigned with the
transport management-related business catalogs SAP_CORE_BC_SL_IMP and SAP_CORE_BC_SL_EXP, needs to take the following
steps to transport these rules to the production system ("P system"):
1. Access the Export Software Collection app in the system that you use for configuration.
2. Create a software collection and choose Add Items.
3. Select the Financial Substitution and Validation type and the rules you want to transport.
4. Choose Export. If the export is successful, you can proceed with the next step. Otherwise, repeat the steps 2~4.
5. Access the Import Collection app in your P system.
6. Open the right version of the software collection you created earlier. It should have the Ready for Import status.
7. Choose Import. If the import is successful, the rules are transported to the P system and can be applied in the relevant runtime
apps.
For more information, see Export Software Collection and Import Collection.
SAP-Delivered Standard Rules for Market Segment
With the Manage Substitution/Validation Rules - General Journal Items app, SAP delivers a set of standard rules for the Market
Segment event. The rules define a standard set of derivations of existing fields for Margin Analysis.
The following table shows the SAP-delivered substitution rules for the event Market Segment:
Rule Name
Description
/0SAP/SetShipToParty
The rule fills the field ShipToParty with the customer number.
/0SAP/SetProfitCenter
The rule derives the value for the field ProfitCenter from the field SoldProduct
and the field Plant, or from the field OrderID, or from the field
WBSElementInternalID. When these conditions aren't met, the value for the field
ProfitCenter is set based on the values in the fields OperatingConcern,
ControllingArea, and FiscalYear.
 Note
All changes to rules can be transported in this way, including rule creation, change, deletion, and activation. However, a rule with a
draft version cannot be exported. You need either to delete or activate the draft.

---

Rule Name
Description
/0SAP/SetCustomerGroup
This rule derives the value for the field CustomerGroup from the fields
SalesOrganization, DistributionChannel, and OrganizationDivision
and fills the field CustomerGroup based on these values.
/0SAP/SetSalesDistrict
This rule derives the value for the field SalesDistrict from the values of the fields
SalesOrganization, DistributionChannel, and OrganizationDivision
and fills the field SalesDistrict based on these values.
/0SAP/SetOrganizationDivision
This rule fills the value for the field OrganizationDivision with the value from the
field SoldProduct-Division.
/0SAP/SetSoldProductGroup
This rule fills the field SoldProductGroup with the value from the field
SoldProduct-ProductGroup.
/0SAP/MoveCostCenter
This rule fills the value for the PartnerCostCenter with the value from the field
CostCenter.
/0SAP/SetSupplierIndustry
This rule fills the value for the field CustomerSupplierIndustry with the value from
the field Customer-Industry.
/0SAP/SetSupplierCountry
This rule fills the field CustomerSupplierCountry with the value from the field
Customer-Country.
/0SAP/SetCompanyCode
This rule fills the field CompanyCode either with the value from the field
Plant2CompanyCode, or with the value from the field SalesOrganization-
CompanyCode.
/0SAP/SetControllingArea
This rule fills the field ControllingArea with the value from the field
CompanyCode2ControllingArea.
 Note
This rule can be disabled in the app.
 Note
This rule can be disabled in the app.
 Note
This rule can be disabled in the app.
 Note
This rule can be disabled in the app.
 Note
This rule can be disabled in the app.
 Note
This rule can be disabled in the app.

---

Substitution/Validation Logs
App ID: F4886
With this app, you can display for a specific event, the in-depth logs of the substitution or validation rule execution at runtime.
Key Features
You can use this app to:
View the substitution or validation rule execution log list and details.
Filter the logs by event, user, or execution time.
Select and combine multiple logs.
Export a list of logs to a spreadsheet.
By selecting a log row from the list view, you can open the log detail page. It illustrates in a tree-like structure the processing flow when
a set of rules for a specific event is triggered. Each log includes the following information from top to bottom:
A line depicting the event being processed, such as FINS_ACC_CB_1 for Coding Block.
A line indicating the input document the substitution or validation applies to, such as COBL for Coding Block and ACDOCU for
Group Reporting Journal Entries.
Substitution or validation rule content structured in a way that illustrates the internal processing flow of the rule execution. The
third column of this part additionally shows an excerpt of the substitution or validation script, which represents the rule in the
backend execution.
The rule execution result, for example, if the precondition was met, which fields were subject to validation or substitution, was
the validation successful or the substitution executed.
The following graphic shows the main aspects described above:
 Note
Log lines formatted in gray color are less important and are included simply for completeness reasons.

---

Supported Device Types
Desktop
Tablet
Information for Key Users
The SAP Fiori apps reference library has details about the content necessary for giving users access to an app on the SAP Fiori
launchpad. To see this app’s Fiori content, go to the SAP Fiori apps reference library
and search for the app. Then select the
product. On the Implementation Information tab, select the correct release. The details are in the Configuration section.
Set Substitution/Validation Logs
App ID: F4945
With this app, you can enable or disable logging substitution or validation rule execution for a certain user or a time period and set
logging level.
Key Features
You can use this app to:
View or filter all enabled log settings by event, rule execution user, or logging level
Create new log settings for a specific event or user. The logging is enabled instantly after creation.
Delete any log settings to disable the logging.
Navigate to substitution and validation rule execution logs.
Logging Settings
When setting logs, you can specify the follows:
Event: The logging only applies to the rules specific to the event.
Logging Level: Represents the level of log detail, such as recording only the rule execution failures or all rule execution
instances.
Logging End Time: Specify till when the rule execution is logged. The logging starts from the current time to your specified end
time. The default logging end time is 24 hours from your current time. You can change it to any future time point.
Rule Execution User: Restrict the logging to a certain user. If you leave it empty, all users will be logged.
The following graphic shows the main aspects described above:
 Note
This app contains in-app help for key fields and concepts. To display the help while working in the app, press F1 or choose the
question mark displayed in the app header.

---

Supported Device Types
Desktop
Tablet
Information for Key Users
The SAP Fiori apps reference library has details about the content necessary for giving users access to an app on the SAP Fiori
launchpad. To see this app’s Fiori content, go to the SAP Fiori apps reference library
and search for the app. Then select the
product. On the Implementation Information tab, select the correct release. The details are in the Configuration section.
Developer Extensibility
You can extend the Manage Substitution/Validation Rules app according to your business needs. For this purpose, the following
development objects were released for developer extensibility purposes.
Interfaces
The following interface is available for development in the ABAP Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition:
Custom Function (IF_FIN_RE_CUSTOM_FUNCTION)
In addition to the SAP-defined functions CONCATENATE and SUBSTRING that are available in the Manage
Substitution/Validation Rules app, you can use this interface to extend the app with customer-defined functions.
 Note
This app contains in-app help for key fields and concepts. To display the help while working in the app, press F1 or choose the
question mark displayed in the app header.
 Note
Developer extensibility is only available in a 3-system landscape. For more information about system landscapes, see System
Landscapes in SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.

---

Implementing the Custom Function interface allows you to integrate custom ABAP logic into the Manage
Substitution/Validation Rules app. Once the implementing ABAP class is activated, the implementation is made available as a
function inside the Manage Substitution/Validation Rules app, which allows you to create custom substitution/validation rules.
Additionally, a demo implementation of this interface is available with the class Demo Customer Function
(CL_SUBVAL_WEEKDAY). It can be used as a starting point to implement custom functions in the ABAP Environment of SAP
S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition. Therefore, the actual logic that is provided with the class is very simple: a weekday calculation.
For more detailed information about the interface and the class, see the ABAP Doc documentation that is directly available
within the coding.
For more information about developer extensibility in SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition, see Developer Extensibility.
Table Lookup
The Table Lookup allows you to choose a field from a custom business object and it uses this value to either substitute a target field or
to use this value in a comparison condition.
If you selected Table Lookup as the substitution type or as a righthand side of a comparison, the Select Source Field dialog open and
you are prompted to specify the following:
A data source that is defined using the Custom Business Objects app.
A field from the data source you want to use in your substitution or validation.
Under the Conditions section, all the key fields of your data source are listed. You must specify the filter conditions by
comparing values of the key fields with those of standard or custom fields. You can also choose to compare values of the key
fields with functions. Furthermore it is possible to use constant literal values as part of this condition. By choosing the
corresponding compare operator, the input field on the right provides a value help to select possible values from the current
custom business object in the system.
If the condition is met by one of the rows in the custom business object, the value for the indicated column is used accordingly
by the substitution or validation. If no row is met by the condition, an empty value is returned by the table lookup and no
substitution is executed. When the table lookup is used in a compare operation, an empty result returned by the table lookup
always means that the comparison is evaluated as FALSE. If the specified condition is met by more than one row in the custom
business object, the result is sorted in ascending order according to the primary key and the first row is selected.
The following figure illustrates the main aspects of the table lookup:
How to Substitute with Time-Dependent Data
In some cases, values in the source field change frequently across periods, which are known as “time-dependent data”. You may want
your target field filled with those varied values accordingly at runtime, for example, during document creation. Let's see how it works in
the following example:
Example
 Note
When implementing the Custom Function interface, make sure to assign the functions to your own namespace.

---

In your custom data source, you have the Company Code and Cost Center fields as key fields. The value of Business Unit constantly
changes, for example, the business unit for a same combination of company code and cost center is RD10 in year YYYY and it
changes to OP20 from the beginning of YYYY+1. In this case, you can additionally define a validity field as a key field in your data
source, for example, the Valid To field of Date type in your data source. So your data source looks like the data in the following table:
Company Code (Key)
Cost Center (Key)
Valid To (Key)
Valid From
Business Unit
C100
CC01
RD10
C100
CC01
OP20
Now, you want the business unit value from your data source to substitute the Functional Area field. You can define your substitution
rule as follows:
Section
Target Field
Substitution Type
Source
Substitution
FunctionalArea
Table Lookup
Data Source:
YY1_<Your custom
BO ID>
Source Field:
BusinessUnit
Conditions:
CompanyCode
Equal To
CompanyCode
CostCenter
Equal To
CostCenter
ValidTo
Greater Than or
Equal To <Your
specified date
field>
ValidFrom
Less Than or
Equal To <Your
specified date
field>
In this example, depending on which period range the value of your specified date field falls within, the corresponding BusinessUnit
field value is used to fill the Functional Area field when you make an entry at runtime.
Substitutions/Validations Using Business Add-Ins (BAdIs)
If you require complex substitution/validation rules, you may need to use a Business Add-In (BAdI). A BAdI enables you to use your own
coding.
The relevant BAdIs are listed here:

---

Business Add-Ins for Substitution for Journal Entries
Business Add-Ins for Validation for Journal Entries
For your substitution/valuation BAdIs, you can use traces to see which methods and parameter values are used. For more information,
see Custom Logic Tracing.
Business Add-Ins for Substitution for Journal Entries
Substitution allows you to replace an element of a posting according to your own user-defined logic.
Use
You can use substitution, for example, for intercompany posting to ensure that trading partners are recorded correctly for suppliers. A
sample scenario would be applying a source substitute cost center for some G/L accounts. Substitution Business Add-Ins (BAdIs) are
delivered under the Journal Entry business context in the Custom Logic app.
The available BAdIs include the following:
FIN_ACDOC_HEADER_SUBSTITUTION - Journal Entry Header Substitution
This allows you to define possible changes in the journal entry header in the form of substitutions of individual fields for each
company code.
FIN_ACDOC_ITEM_SUBSTITUTION - Journal Entry Item Substitution
This allows you to define possible changes in each line item of a journal entry in the form of substitutions of individual fields for
each company code.
FIN_CODING_BLOCK_SUBSTITUTION - Coding Block Substitution
This allows you to define possible changes in the account assignment block of the line item in a journal entry in the form of
substitutions of individual fields.
FIN_ACDOC_EXT_SUBSTITUTION - Journal Entry Item Extension Fields Substitution
This enhancement option allows you to define possible changes in journal entry items in the form of substitutions of individual
extension fields for each company code.
FIN_ACDOC_EXT_REV_SUBSTITUTION - Journal Entry Item Extension Fields Substitution For Reverse
This allows you to define possible changes in journal entry items in the form of substitutions of individual extension fields for
each company code. This enhancement option is valid for both manual reverse of journal entries and automatic reverse of
journal entries (for example, cancel billing).
FIN_ACDOC_EXT_CHG_SUBSTITUTION - Journal Entry Item Extension Fields Substitution For Change
This is used to define possible changes in journal entry items in the form of substitutions of individual extension fields for each
company code.
 Tip
Use the Manage Substitution/Validation Rules app whenever possible. Besides its ease of use, it allows you to analyze
substitution and validation logs easily with the Set Substitution/Validation Logs app. Implement BAdIs when specific substitution
or validation requirements go beyond the functional scope of the Manage Substitution/Validation Rules app. For more information,
see Substitution/Validation Logs.

---

FIN_ACDOC_SUBSTITUTION - Journal Entry Substitution
This is used to define possible changes in the journal entry in the form of substitutions of individual fields for each company
code.
For each BAdI, you can use the pre-delivered examples of validation/substitution messages class and messages as a basis for your
own coding. For more information about how to implement the BAdI, read the comments in the sample coding. Also, read the system
documentation by choosing View Details on the Description tab for a BAdI.
Substituting Journal Entry Fields Based on Transient Billing Document Data
When the system creates journal entries for posted billing documents, the following BAdIs (among others) provide the corresponding
billing document number:
FIN_ACDOC_SUBSTITUTION - Journal Entry Substitution
FIN_ACDOC_HEADER_SUBSTITUTION - Journal Entry Header Substitution
FIN_ACDOC_ITEM_SUBSTITUTION - Journal Entry Item Substitution
By querying the relevant CDS views during posting, your custom logic in these BAdIs can therefore perform substitutions based on the
values of specific billing document fields. However, this only works when the preceding billing document has already been written to the
database. This is the case when the billing document was initially created without immediate posting to financial accounting.
When billing document creation and posting occur simultaneously, you can't yet query the relevant CDS views for billing document data.
Instead, you can call the class CL_SDBIL_ACCTGINF_BPD_RTME_DTA (Read Transient Billing Doc. on Call to Accounting
Interface) at runtime to retrieve transient billing document data, before the system writes it to the database.
For more information about working with this class, see Knowledge Base Article 3761835
Related Information
Custom Fields App and Custom Logic App
Custom Fields for Journal Entries Used in G/L Accounting
Creating Implementations
Business Add-Ins for Validation for Journal Entries
Validation ensures that checks are performed to validate data during posting.
Use
Before a journal entry is posted, the system performs standard checks to validate the data to be included. In certain cases, you may
want the system to perform additional validation checks. For example, you may also want to check if certain master data parameters
are available before the posting is made. You can define a message to be displayed to the end users if the conditions in the check are
not fulfilled and the posting cannot be made.
You add your own validation checks by creating custom logic for Business Add-Ins (BAdIs). The BAdIs are available for validation in the
Custom Logic app under the Journal Entry business context.
 Note
You can only use journal entry substitution for those fields that are delivered with the substitution BAdI.

---

The available BAdIs include the following:
FIN_ACDOC_HEADER_VALIDATION - Journal Entry Header Validation
Using this BAdI, you can implement checks of the values in the header fields of a journal entry. The check is performed at the
company code level
FIN_ACDOC_ITEM_VALIDATION - Journal Entry Item Validation
This provides checks for each line item in posting journal entries at company code level.
FIN_CODING_BLOCK_VALIDATION - Coding Block Validation
This validates the account assignment fields for each line item in posting journal entries on the level of company code.
FIN_ACDOC_VALIDATION - Journal Entry Validation
This provides checks for document header and line items in posting journal entries at company code level
FIN_CO_SNDR_RECR_VALIDATION - CO Sender Receiver Validation
This is used to provide checks for sender and receiver in CO postings and can be activated at company code level.
For more information about how to implement the BAdI, read the comments in the sample coding. Also, read the system documentation
by choosing View Details on the Description tab for BAdIs.
Supported Message Types
The BAdIs consider only error messages (type E), except for the FIN_ACDOC_VALIDATION BAdI, which also considers warning
messages (type W). The system ignores all other message types. Error messages prevent postings for both manual and automatic
journal entry creation.
You can find details about warnings in the documentation for the FIN_ACDOC_VALIDATION BAdI using the Custom Logic app.
Procedure
Use the Custom Logic app to implement your additional validations.
Filter by the Journal Entry business context.
Use the pre-delivered sample coding, message classes and messages.
Restrictions
You can only use journal entry validation for those fields (including custom fields) that are available in the importing parameters
of the validation BAdIs.
Related Information
Custom Fields App and Custom Logic App
Custom Fields for Journal Entries Used in G/L Accounting
Creating Implementations
Role-Based Access to Price Elements in Sales Documents

---

You can control business users' access to price elements in sales quotations, sales contracts, sales orders, sales orders without
charge, returns orders, credit memo requests, and debit memo requests.
Your configuration expert and your administrator can make settings to control the access to price elements in sales quotations, sales
contracts, sales orders, sales orders without charge, returns orders, credit memo requests, and debit memo requests. This can be
helpful when certain information, such as the profit margin, should stay hidden for certain users or when not all users should be able to
edit specific price elements. For more information, see Role-Based Access to Price Elements.
Maintaining Restrictions for Role-Based Access to Price Elements
When maintaining restrictions for the access to price elements in the Maintain Business Roles app, you as an administrator must
choose application V and select the relevant SAP object type. The relevant SAP object type corresponds to the sales document
category for which you want to restrict price element access.
Administrators can maintain these restrictions on business role level for one or more sales document categories by using the Access to
Price Elements (KAPPL_PRCG_SOT_PRCG_ACC) restriction type. This is possible for any business role containing at least one of the
business catalogs listed in the table below.
The table also shows you which SAP object type corresponds to which document category, which business catalogs the respective
restrictions are valid for, and which apps are affected by the restrictions that are set.
Document Category
SAP Object Type
Relevant Business Catalogs
Apps in Busi
Catalog
Sales quotation
SalesQuotation
BC SAP_SD_BC_QUOT_DISPL_PC
SAP_SD_BC_QUOT_PROC_MC
SAP_SD_BC_SALES_ARCH_QTAN_PC
SAP_A4C_BC_DEV_TST_SD0_PC
(relevant for RAP business objects only)
Mana
Sales
Quota
- Vers
Creat
Sales
Quota
- VA2
 Caution
If several SAP object types are enabled and the corresponding SD documents use the same pricing procedure, the following
applies: You must ensure that the corresponding business roles working with these pricing procedures have the restriction type of
this function maintained. Otherwise, for users assigned to these business roles, all condition types or subtotal lines, for which an
access level is maintained in the pricing procedure, are invisible.
For example, imagine you have assigned access levels to the pricing procedure used for sales orders and maintained (in the
respective business roles) specific restrictions for the SalesOrder SAP object type. As your billing documents use the same
pricing procedure as your sales orders, you must also maintain (in the business roles that access billing documents) restrictions for
the BillingDocument SAP object type. Otherwise, the restricted price elements are no longer visible in billing documents for
users assigned to the non-maintained business roles.
 Tip
Some of the following SAP object types are enabled for this function by default. If required, you can selectively disable them in the
Enable Role-Based Access to Price Elements per SAP Object Type configuration activity. You can find this configuration activity
by using the search function in your configuration environment. For more information about your configuration environment, see
Configuration Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.

---

Document Category
SAP Object Type
Relevant Business Catalogs
Apps in Busi
Catalog
Chan
Sales
Quota
- VA2
Displ
Sales
Quota
- VA2
Sales contract
SalesContract
SAP_SD_BC_CONTR_PROC_MC
SAP_SD_BC_CONTR_DISPL_MC
SAP_SD_BC_SALES_ARCH_CONTR_PC
SAP_A4C_BC_DEV_TST_SD0_PC
(relevant for RAP business objects only)
Mana
Sales
Contr
Versi
Creat
Sales
Contr
VA41
Chan
Sales
Contr
VA42
Displ
Sales
Contr
VA43
Sales order
SalesOrder (enabled
by default)
SAP_SD_BC_SO_PROC_MC
SAP_SD_BC_SO_DISPL_PC
SAP_SD_BC_SO_PROC_INTCO
SAP_SD_BC_SO_IMPORT_PC
SAP_SD_BC_SALES_ARCH_DOCS_PC
SAP_A4C_BC_DEV_TST_SD0_PC
(relevant for RAP business objects only)
Mana
Sales
Order
Versi
Creat
Sales
Order
VA01
Chan
Sales
Order
VA02
Displ
Sales
Order
VA03
Impo
Sales
Order
Mana
Sales
Docu
 Note
See also the note below for sales orders
without charge.

---

Document Category
SAP Object Type
Relevant Business Catalogs
Apps in Busi
Catalog
with
Custo
Expe
Price
Sales order without charge
SalesOrder (enabled
by default)
SAP_SD_BC_SOWC_MANAGE_PC
SAP_SD_BC_ORDERS_OWC_PROC_MC
SAP_SD_BC_OWC_DISPL_PC
Mana
Sales
Order
Witho
Charg
Versi
Creat
Sales
Order
Witho
Charg
VA01
Chan
Sales
Order
Witho
Charg
VA02
Displ
Sales
Order
Witho
Charg
VA03
Returns order
CustomerReturn
(enabled by default)
SAP_SD_BC_RETURNS_DISPL_MC
SAP_SD_BC_RETURNS_PROC_PC
SAP_A4C_BC_DEV_TST_SD0_PC
(relevant for RAP business objects only)
Mana
Custo
Retur
Versi
Creat
Custo
Retur
Creat
Custo
Retur
Witho
Refer
- VA0
Chan
Custo
Retur
Displ
Custo
Retur
 Caution
Note the following:
When you enable role-based
access to price elements for sales
orders, these conditions
automatically apply to sales orders
without charge, too.
If you work only with sales orders
without charge, but not with sales
orders, and want to enable role-
based access to price elements for
sales orders, you must use the
SalesOrder SAP object type,
both in the Enable Role-Based
Access to Price Elements per
SAP Object Type configuration
activity and in the restriction type
for the access to price elements
(KAPPL_PRCG_SOT_PRCG_ACC).

---

Document Category
SAP Object Type
Relevant Business Catalogs
Apps in Busi
Catalog
Credit memo request
CreditMemoRequest
(enabled by default)
SAP_SD_BC_CMR_PROC_MC
SAP_SD_BC_DMR_CMR_DISPL_PC
SAP_A4C_BC_DEV_TST_SD0_PC
(relevant for RAP business objects only)
Creat
Credi
Memo
Requ
Chan
Credi
Memo
Requ
Displ
Credi
Memo
Requ
Creat
Credi
Memo
Requ
W/o
Prece
Docu
Mana
Credi
Memo
Requ
Versi
Debit memo request
DebitMemoRequest
(enabled by default)
SAP_SD_BC_DMR_PROC_MC
SAP_SD_BC_DMR_CMR_DISPL_PC
SAP_A4C_BC_DEV_TST_SD0_PC
(relevant for RAP business objects only)
Creat
Debit
Memo
Requ
Chan
Debit
Memo
Requ
Displ
Debit
Memo
Requ
Creat
Debit
Memo
Requ
W/o
Prece
Docu
Mana
Debit
Memo

---

Document Category
SAP Object Type
Relevant Business Catalogs
Apps in Busi
Catalog
Requ
Versi
For more information about setting up role-based access to price elements, see Setting Up Role-Based Access to Price Elements.
Related Information
Example for Setting Up Role-Based Access
Fast Entry of Characteristic Values in Sales Documents
Use
When entering a sales document with several configurable materials you can go to the characteristic value assignment screen for each
item in order to assign values to the characteristics of materials. As an alternative, you can use this fast entry of characteristic values
function to enter not only item data such as material and quantity in the overview screen but also value assignments for up to ten
characteristics. This greatly reduces entry effort, in particularly for materials with few characteristics and for materials with many
characteristics where in most cases only a few characteristic values need to be changed during the sales order creation process.
Integration
Fast entry of characteristic values is available to you in the sales order and sales quotation.
Prerequisites
You have maintained the characteristics display and characteristics in the Maintain Char. Display for Configuration app.
Features
In the sales document you can display up to ten characteristics on the Configuration tab using a selected characteristic display; you
can then configure the characteristics when you enter order items. If you have no more than ten different characteristics to which you
must assign values, you need not go to the characteristic value assignment screen in order to configure the item.
The Configuration tab page also shows you the status of the configuration. The system displays the following symbols in the
Configuration Status column to indicate whether configuration is complete or whether there are still inconsistencies:
Example
You want to control price element access for business users assigned to the business role MY_BUSINESS_ROLE. The role contains
the business catalog SAP_SD_BC_DMR_CMR_DISPL_PC, which is assigned with the Display Debit Memo Requests app the and
Display Credit Memo Requests app.
 Note
If role-based access to price elements is set up, access restrictions are not applied during data retrieval using CDS Views, OData
APIs, SOAP APIs, or BAPIs. Authorizations are applied for data retrieval using RAP business objects (BOs), unless you're using
privileged mode.

---

Symbols in the status display during creation, changing, and displaying of sales documents
Symbol in creation/change mode
Symbol in display mode
Description
The configuration is incomplete (mandatory
characteristics are missing) or inconsistent
(object dependencies conflict). It can be
changed.
The configuration is complete and consistent.
It can be changed.
You can change the configuration. The
original acts as a variant. Double click the
symbol to create a copy of the material
variant. You can then change the
configuration.
You cannot change the configuration. This
item is normally referenced (for example, the
item is delivered or there is a production
order in make to order production).
<blank>
<blank>
The configuration does not exist or the
material cannot be configured.
When you click on these symbols on the Configuration tab page, you are taken to the characteristic value assignment screen of the
corresponding order item.
Related Information
Maintain Characteristic Display for Configuration
Enterprise Portfolio and Project Management in Sales Documents
You can use Enterprise Portfolio and Project Management (EPPM) which employs project profiles to differentiate between
accounting scenarios. Projects with revenue allow you to plan and post costs and revenues for your projects. The billing elements in
such a project structure are work breakdown structure (WBS) elements. In sales documents, you can assign these WBS elements from
these projects to your sales document items. You can do so for the following sales document categories:
Sales orders
Customer returns
Sales orders without charge
Credit memo requests
Debit memo requests
For sales orders, you can assign a WBS element to an item of a sales order for the following item categories:
CBAO: Milestone billing plan
CBTA: Make-to-order standard item
CBTD: Configuration milestone billing plan

---

CBTQ: Pricing header milestone billing plan
CBAB: Bought-in item
CB1: Third party with shipping notification
CB2: Third party without shipping notification
CB1C: Third party variant configuration with shipping notification
CB2C: Third party variant configuration without shipping notification
CTAD: Milestone billing plan service
CTAX: Milestone billing plan non-stock
DBAB: Milestone billing plan
DB1: Milestone billing plan
DB2: Milestone billing plan
TAD: Service item
TAN: Standard item
TAX: Non-stock item
TAQ: Pricing at header level
CPHD: BOM main item with pricing and logistics on subitem level
CMC1: Configurable BOM main item with pricing and logistics on subitem level
CMC2: Configurable BOM main item with pricing free of charge and logistics on subitem level
CMC4: Configurable BOM main item with pricing and billing plan and logistics on subitem level
CMHD: Configurable BOM main item with pricing and milestone billing plan and logistics on subitem level
These item categories are relevant for pricing.
Note that, in general, you cannot assign a WBS element that is already assigned to an item of any of these categories to another item
of these categories. The system will prevent this in order to assure consistent subsequent revenue recognition postings. The only
exceptions are WBS elements from projects that are set up to support multiple sales order items. In this case, you can assign the same
WBS element to more than one sales order item. The prerequisite is that any items for which you want to use a WBS element that has
already been assigned to another item determine the same results analysis key (RA key) that is derived from the first sales order item.
This key is used in cost controlling.
For the same reason, if you want to change the item category of a sales order item, you must first remove the assigned WBS element,
unless the new item category leads to the same RA key.
In addition, you can also assign WBS elements to an item of the following item categories that are for free goods (100% discount) or not
relevant for pricing:
C4L: Third party without shipping notification free of charge (not relevant for pricing)
CB3: Third party with shipping notification free
CB3C: Third party variant configuration with shipping notification free of charge

---

CB4: Third party without shipping notification free
CB4C: Third party variant configuration without shipping notification free of charge
CBLN: Free of charge express (not relevant for pricing)
CBTN: Free of charge configuration at material level
CBXB: Bought-in item free of charge
CBXL: Bought-in item free of charge (not relevant for pricing)
CBXN: Free of charge enhancement
TADL: Service item free of charge (not relevant for pricing)
TADN: Service item free of charge
TAXN: Non-stock item free of charge
CBLI: Logistics subitem with billing (not relevant for pricing)
CFHD: BOM item level with pricing free of charge and logistics on subitem level
CMLI: Logistics subitem milestone billing plan (not relevant for pricing)
CMNS: Non-stock subitem milestone (not relevant for pricing)
CNLA: Non-stock item (not relevant for pricing)
CSC2: Configuration subitem level (not relevant for pricing)
CSC4: Configuration subitem level milestone billing plan (not relevant for pricing)
Related Information
Enterprise Portfolio and Project Management
Billing Element
Extensibility for Sales Documents
Learn how to implement custom logic and extend processes for sales documents.
If you want to extend a specific app or API for sales documents, you can find more information underneath the respective app or API
documentation.
Process Extensibility for Sales Documents and Billing Documents
Features
 Note
You can assign WBS elements directly in the item or in the header. If you assign them in the header, the system automatically
copies them into any newly created items.

---

In the Custom Fields app, you can make custom fields available in several apps and entire processes by using business scenarios.
After enabling a custom field for a business scenario in a specific business context, the value of this field is copied from the first
document that contains it to the subsequent documents. The following table lists the business scenarios that are available for each
business context.
Business Context
Business Scenario
Sales: Sales Document
Sales Document to Sales Document on Header Level
Sales Document to Billing Document on Header Level
Sales Document to Billing Document from Header to Item
Level
Sales Order Header to Billing Document Header for
Project Billing
Sales Order Header to Billing Document Item for Project
Billing
Billing Document to Sales Document on Header Level
Sales Document to Delivery on Header Level
Sales Document to Pricing Communication on Header
Level
Sales Document Header Level to Billing Due List
Service Transaction to Sales Document at Header level
Sales Order Request to Sales Document on Header Level
Sales: Sales Document Item
Sales Document to Sales Document on Item Level
Sales Document to Billing Document on Item Level
Sales Order Item to Billing Document Item for Project
Billing
Sales Order Item to Billing Document Header for Project
Billing
Billing Document to Sales Document on Item Level
Sales Document to Billing Document from Item to Header
Level
Sales Document to Delivery on Item Level
Sales Document to Delivery from Item to Header Level
Sales Document to Pricing Communication on Item Level
Sales Item Proposal to Sales Document Item
Service Transaction to Sales Document at Item level
 Note
All custom fields that are set to be copied to billing documents are also copied to any preliminary billing documents that you create.

---

Business Context
Business Scenario
Sales Document to Revenue Accounting Contract on Item
Level
Sales Order Request to Sales Document on Item Level
Master data to the sales document item
Customer Material to Sales Document Item
Product Plant to Sales Document Item
Product to Sales Document Item
For information about the relevant UI elements in product
master data, see App Extensibility: Manage Product Master.
Sales: Billing Document
Sales Document to Billing Document on Header Level
Sales Document to Billing Document from Item to Header
Level
Sales Order Header to Billing Document Header for
Project Billing
Delivery to Billing Document from Item to Header Level
Billing Document to Sales Document on Header Level
Delivery to Billing Document on Header Level
Billing Document to Pricing Communication on Header
Level
Billing Document Request Header Level to Billing Due
List
Service Transaction to Billing Document at Header Level
 Note
If the same custom field exists in all three business
scenarios, the system processes them in a descending
order of priority:
1. Customer Material to Sales Document Item (for
copying data from the customer material )
2. Product Plant to Sales Document Item (for
copying data from the product's plant data)
3. Product to Sales Document Item (for copying
data from the product's general data)
If a custom field exists in multiple business scenarios, the
system always copies the custom field from the master
data of a higher priority. For example, the custom field
"YY1_test" has been enabled for all three business
scenarios but no value is maintained in the customer
material data (regardless of whether a value is maintained
in product master data), the custom field would be empty
in sales document items.

---

Business Context
Business Scenario
Service Transaction to Billing Document to Pricing at
Header Level
Sales: Billing Document Item
Sales Document to Billing Document on Item Level
Sales Document to Billing Document from Header to Item
Level
Sales Order Header to Billing Document Item for Project
Billing
Sales Order Item to Billing Document Item for Project
Billing
Billing Document to Sales Document on Item Level
Delivery to Billing Document on Item Level
Delivery to Billing Document from Header to Item Level
Billing Document to Pricing Communication on Item
Level
Billing Document Item to Coding Block
Billing Document Item to Journal Entry on Item Level
Billing Document Item to Market Segment
Service Transaction to Billing Document at Item Level
Service Transaction to Billing Document to Pricing at
Item Level
 Note
This business scenario only functions correctly when the
profitability segment is determined directly in the
document containing the item-level custom field (rather
than being copied from the preceding document). This is
only the case in the following types of documents:
Billing document requests created using the Billing
Document Request - Create SOAP API
Billing documents created using the Billing
Document - Create SOAP API
In such cases, you can use this business scenario to
forward custom fields from the above documents to
market segments in sales accounting, where this
information can be used for margin analysis. For more
information, see Process Extensibility for Market
Segments.

---

Business Context
Business Scenario
Sales: Billing Due List
Sales Document Header Level to Billing Due List
Delivery Header Level to Billing Due List
Billing Document Request Header Level to Billing Due
List
Sales: Customer Material
Customer Material to Sales Document Item on Item Level
Sales: Pricing Communication Head
Billing Document to Pricing Communication on Header
Level
Sales Document to Pricing Communication on Header
Level
Sales: Pricing Communication Item
Billing Document to Pricing Communication on Item
Level
Sales Document to Pricing Communication on Item Level
Sales: Sales Order Request
Sales Order Request to Sales Document on Header Level
Sales: Sales Order Request Item
Sales Order Request to Sales Document on Item Level
Restrictions
For sales documents, you can add a maximum of 170 extension fields to the custom fields tab in the apps on either header or item
level.
Related Information
Key User Extensibility
Custom Fields App and Custom Logic App
Process Extensibility for Journal Entries
Process Extensibility for Delivery Documents
Process Extensibility for Billing of Service Transactions
Process Extensibility for Market Segments
 Caution
Note that if you enable several business scenarios for the same business context, the system first transfers data from the header to
the header, then from the item to the header. This means that it is possible that you overwrite values in custom fields. This could be
the case, for example, if you transfer data from the sales document header to the billing document header, but you also enable the
transfer from the sales document item to the billing document header. The second value overwrites the first value. To solve this
problem, disable one of the business scenarios.

---

Business Add-Ins (BAdIs) for Sales Documents
You can implement logic using BAdIs for sales documents to influence how the system behaves in certain cases. You can find more
information about the BAdIs as well as sample implementations in the Custom Logic app. The following table serves as an overview of
available BAdIs:
BAdI Description
Business Context
Use
Modification of Header Custom Fields in
Sales Documents
(SD_SLS_MODIFY_HEAD)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Sales: Sales Document
Set or change values for custom fields in
sales document headers.
Modification of Item Custom Fields in
Sales Documents
(SD_SLS_MODIFY_ITEM)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Sales: Sales Document Item
Set or change values for custom fields in
sales document items.
Check of Header Data in Sales Documents
(SD_SLS_CHECK_HEAD)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Sales: Sales Document
Perform checks on sales document header
data.
Check of Item Data in Sales Documents
(SD_SLS_CHECK_ITEM)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Sales: Sales Document Item
Perform checks on sales document item
data.
Check of Sales Documents Before Saving
(SD_SLS_CHECK_BEFORE_SAVE)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Sales: Sales Document
Check sales document data or sales
document item data before saving, or cancel
sales document saving.
Sales: Sales Document Item
Custom Field Properties in Sales
Document Headers
(SD_SLS_FIELDPROP_HEAD)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Sales: Sales Document
Set field properties for custom fields in sales
document headers.
Custom Field Properties in Sales
Document Items
(SD_SLS_FIELDPROP_ITEM)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Sales: Sales Document Item
Set field properties for custom fields in sales
document items.
Check of Sales Document Items Before
Deletion
(SD_SLS_CHECK_DELETE_ITEM)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Sales: Sales Document Item
Prevent deletion of sales document items.
Modification of Tax Data in Sales
Document Headers
(SD_SLS_MODIFY_HEAD_TAX)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Sales: Sales Document
Set or change values for tax-relevant fields in
sales document headers.
Modification of Tax Data in Sales
Document Items
(SD_SLS_MODIFY_ITEM_TAX)
Sales: Sales Document Item
Set or change values for tax-relevant fields in
sales document items.

---

BAdI Description
Business Context
Use
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Modification of Business Data in Sales
Document Headers
(SD_SLS_MODIFY_HEAD_BUSINESS)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Sales: Sales Document
Set or change values for business data fields
in sales document headers.
Modification of Business Data in Sales
Document Items
(SD_SLS_MODIFY_ITEM_BUSINESS)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Sales: Sales Document Item
Set or change values for business data fields
in sales document items.
Modification of Requested Delivery Date
for Sales Document Items
(SD_SLS_MODIFY_ITEM_REQDATE)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Sales: Sales Document Item
Set or change the requested delivery date in
sales document items to a date that is
different from the one that the system
determines automatically.
Modification of Sales Document in Finalize
Phase before Save (SD_SLS_FINALIZE)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
Sales: Sales Document
Set or change custom fields at the sales
order header and item level. Additionally, you
can set or change the rejection reason and
supply block reason at the sales document
item level.
Modification of Custom Fields in Sales
Documents at End of Finalize Phase
Before Saving
(SD_SLS_END_OF_FINALIZE)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
n/a (only supported for developer
extensibility)
Set or change custom fields at the sales
document header and item level, prevent
saving, or return messages to end-users.
Reprocessing of Sales Document Items
Based on Header Data Changes
(SD_SLS_REPROCESS_ITEMS_HEAD)
SAP Business Accelerator Hub
n/a (only supported for developer
extensibility)
Initiate the reprocessing of sales document
items based on changes of sales document
header fields.
Related Information
Custom Logic
Custom Logic Tracing
Extensibility: Sales Order/Customer Return - Create, Update, Cancel
Feature Comparison for Selected Sales Document BAdIs
Learn more about different BAdIs for sales documents and their use cases.
The following table compares the features offered by various Business Add-Ins (BAdIs) for sales documents. The column headings
contain links to the BAdIs on the SAP Business Accelerator Hub.
 Note
This BAdI is only called for sales orders
and sales orders without charge.

---

BAdI Name
Modification of Header
Custom Fields in Sales
Documents
Modification of Item
Custom Fields in Sales
Documents
Modification of Sales
Document in Finalize
Phase Before Save
Check of Sales Documents
Before Saving
M
Fi
a
BAdI ID
SD_SLS_MODIFY_HEAD
SD_SLS_MODIFY_ITEM
SD_SLS_FINALIZE
SD_SLS_CHECK_BEFORE_SAVE
SD
Supported for
key user
extensibility
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Supported for
developer
extensibility
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Can set
custom fields
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Can set
standard fields
No
No
Supports setting the
item rejection reason
No
Can prevent
saving
No
No
No
Yes
Can return
messages
No
No
No
Yes
Point of time
when BAdI is
called
Every time a sales
document is processed
Every time a sales
document item is
processed
Once before sales
document is saved (at
the beginning of the
Finalize phase)
Once before sales document is
saved (in the middle of the Finalize
phase)
On
is
Recommended
use case
For end-users
working in apps
who need to see
immediate results
For end-users
working in apps
who need to see
immediate
results
For automated
processes (for
example, APIs)
For custom
fields that are
relevant for a
redetermination
of dependent
values
For cases in which you
want to prevent saving of
the sales document
Important to
know
Might be called
multiple times
during sales
document
processing
Might be called
multiple times
during sales
document
processing
Changes made
with this BAdI
can
redetermine
dependent
values
Supports only
sales orders
and sales
orders without
charge

---

BAdI Name
Modification of Header
Custom Fields in Sales
Documents
Modification of Item
Custom Fields in Sales
Documents
Modification of Sales
Document in Finalize
Phase Before Save
Check of Sales Documents
Before Saving
M
Fi
a
BAdI ID
SD_SLS_MODIFY_HEAD
SD_SLS_MODIFY_ITEM
SD_SLS_FINALIZE
SD_SLS_CHECK_BEFORE_SAVE
SD
Is not called in
specific
processes (for
details, check
the
documentation
attached to the
BAdI)
Extensibility for Business Application Programming Interfaces
(BAPIs) for Sales Documents
As a key user, you can extend the following Business Application Programming Interfaces (BAPIs) for sales documents according to
your business needs:
Create Sales Inquiry
Change Sales Inquiry
Create Sales Quotation
Change Sales Quotation
Create Sales Order
Change Sales Order
Create Sales Contract
Change Sales Contract
Features
You can extend the BAPIs with custom fields created in the Custom Fields app with the following business contexts:
Sales: Sales Document
Sales: Sales Document Item
You can enable usage of your custom fields for the BAPIs listed above in the BAPIs section of the custom field maintenance and
publish your custom fields.
Related Information
Custom Fields App and Custom Logic App
Key User Extensibility

---

Custom Logic: Data Transfer and Copying Requirements for Sales
Documents
With this function, you can control the copying process from a reference document to a sales document according to your business
needs.
As a key user, you can implement custom logic for several Business Add-Ins (BAdIs) with unique filter values by using the Sales: Sales
Document and the Sales: Sales Document Item business contexts.
You can then define your own additional routines for data transfer and copying requirements to enhance the copying control for sales
documents: You register a routine number and assign the filter value of the BAdI implementation as the enhancement identifier (ID) to
the routine number.
After making these adaptations, in the configuration of the copying control for reference document to sales document, you can enter the
routine number in the Data Transfer or Requirement field on header or item level. As a result, during the copying process, the system
calls the assigned BAdI implementation as follows:
Data transfer routines: The custom logic influences the copied fields with additional logic.
Copying requirement routines: The custom logic checks whether the reference document can be copied to a sales document.
Features
1. With the Custom Logic app, you can implement custom logic for the following Business Add-Ins (BAdIs) and assign a unique
filter value to it:
Business Add-In (BAdI)
Business Context
Copying Requirements for Sales Documents (from Billing
Documents)
Sales: Sales Document
Copying Requirements for Sales Documents (from Billing
Documents)
Sales: Sales Document
Data Transfer for Sales Document Headers
Sales: Sales Document
Copying Requirements for Sales Document Items (from Sales
Documents)
Sales: Sales Document Item
Copying Requirements for Sales Document Items (from Billing
Documents)
Sales: Sales Document Item
Data Transfer for Sales Document Items
Sales: Sales Document Item
2. You can make the following settings in your configuration environment:
a. You can perform the Define Data Transfer and Copying Requirements for Sales Documents configuration activity for
the implementation type Business Add-In (BAdI): You can define a routine number for the following process
enhancement options:
Copying Requirement - Billing to Sales (Header)
Copying Requirement - Sales to Sales (Header)
Copying Requirement - Billing to Sales (Item)
Copying Requirement - Sales to Sales (Item)

---

Data Transfer for Sales Document (Header)
Data Transfer for Sales Document (Item)
You use this routine number in a later step in the configuration of the copying control for reference document to sales
document. For this routine number, you assign the filter value of the respective BAdI implementation as the
enhancement ID for the relevant process enhancement option task.
b. You can change the Set Copying Control: Sales Document to Sales Document or the Set Copying Control: Billing
Document to Sales Document configuration activity: For a selected reference document and target sales document,
you can configure the routine for the Data Transfer or the Copying Requirement field by entering the routine number
that you defined previously. You can change the copying control on header and item level.
Feature Comparison for Managing Sales Documents
The following table shows the most important differences between the apps that you can use for managing sales documents. It doesn't
list all features that the apps offer. The column headings contain links to the app documentation and the app's entry in the SAP Fiori
apps reference library.
App Name
Manage Sales Documents
Mass Change of Sales Documents
Version 2 Apps for Managing
Particular Sales Documents
App ID
F8712
F5091
Sales document
category
Sales orders
Sales orders without charge
Credit memo requests
Debit memo requests
Sales quotations
Sales contracts
Sales scheduling agreements
Sales orders
Sales orders without charge
Customer returns
Credit memo requests
Debit memo requests
Only one sales document category per
app, as indicated in the app names:
Manage Sales Quotations -
Version 2
Manage Sales Contracts -
Version 2
Manage Sales Orders -
Version 2
Manage Sales Orders Without
Charge - Version 2
Manage Customer Returns -
Version 2
Manage Credit Memo
Requests - Version 2
Manage Debit Memo
Requests - Version 2
Search and filters
Header, item, and schedule line fields
available as filters
Header, item, and schedule line fields
available as filters
Header fields plus one item field
(product) available as filters
List display level
Header, item, and schedule line levels
Header, item, and schedule line levels
Only header level
Actions
 Note
The enhancement ID must correspond to the filter value of the BAdI implementation.

---

App Name
Manage Sales Documents
Mass Change of Sales Documents
Version 2 Apps for Managing
Particular Sales Documents
App ID
F8712
F5091
Sales document
creation
Yes, for a greater variety of sales
document types
Example (sales order creation):
With the Manage Sales Documents
app, you can create sales orders by
navigating to the Manage Sales
Orders - Version 2 or Create Sales
Orders - VA01 app. Therefore, the
creation is supported for all sales
order types.
No
Yes, for a limited number of sales
document types
Example (sales order creation):
With the Manage Sales Orders -
Version 2 app, you can create sales
orders for four sales order types:
Standard order
Consignment fill-up
Consignment issue
Returnable packaging issue
Mass updates
Only single actions, depending on the
document level
Example actions include the following:
Set and remove delivery
blocks
Set and remove billing blocks
Set and remove rejection
reasons
Check credit
Update prices
Yes
Besides single actions, the app also
allows you to change multiple header
or item fields at a time.
Limited single actions (such as setting
and removing blocks), if applicable
Full selection for
mass updates
At most 200 entries in the list are
selected.
All entries in the list are selected.
At most 30 entries in the list are
selected.
Point of time of
change
Changes happen immediately.
Changes are scheduled in background
jobs.
Changes happen immediately.
Custom Fields as Filters and in the List
Custom fields
(header)
Header custom fields are available:
As filters
In the document list on
header, item, and schedule
line levels
Header custom fields are available:
As filters
In the document list on header
and item levels
Header custom fields are available:
As filters
In the document list (on
header level)
Custom fields
(item)
Item custom fields are available:
Item custom fields are available:
Item custom fields are not available as
filters or in the document list.
 Recommendation
The app is the best option for
changing more than 20 sales
documents at a time.

---

App Name
Manage Sales Documents
Mass Change of Sales Documents
Version 2 Apps for Managing
Particular Sales Documents
App ID
F8712
F5091
As filters
In the document list on item
and schedule line levels
As filters
In the document list on item
level
FAQ for Sales Documents
Read on to find answers to some frequently asked questions about sales documents.
Can I delete a sales document?
You can delete a sales document as long as there are no subsequent documents (for example, a delivery document). However, if you
delete a sales document, you effectively remove it from the database. This means that you can no longer analyze it. Therefore, SAP
recommends that you work with reasons for rejection instead. If you reject a sales document, the reason for rejection that you select
applies to all sales document items.
Can I delete a sales document item?
You can delete a sales document item as long as there are no subsequent documents related to this item (for example, a delivery
document). However, if you delete a sales document item, you effectively remove it from the database. This means that you can no
longer analyze it. Therefore, SAP recommends that you work with reasons for rejection instead.
You usually reject items due to one of two reasons:
Your organization wants to reject an item. You might, for example, want to reject a customer request for a credit memo because
it is unreasonable.
Your customer wants to reject an item. They might, for example, reject a sales quotation because the price is too high.
When you reject a sales document item, the system cancels any materials planning requirements (MRP) previously generated for the
item.
The rejection has additional implications depending on the sales document category:
Sales inquiries: Other documents can no longer reference the sales inquiry.
Sales quotations: Other documents can no longer reference the sales quotation.
Sales orders: Items are no longer delivered.
Sales contracts: Release orders are no longer created.
Credit memo requests: Credit memos are no longer processed.
Debit memo requests: Debit memos are no longer processed.
Your configuration expert can define rejection reasons and make settings related to them (for example, whether rejected items should
be part of the document output, along with the rejection reason). In your configuration environment, they can use the search function to
open the following activity: Define Reasons for Rejection. For more information about configuration environments, see Configuration
Environment of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.

---

When the credit status of a sales document is not approved, what could be the possible reasons?
A sales document whose credit status is not approved is credit-blocked and cannot be delivered. Possible reasons include the following:
The customer did not pass the credit check by SAP Credit Management.
SAP Credit Management performs the credit check based on the check rules assigned to the customer. Credit data such as the
credit limit utilization and credit exposure might be examined. For more information, see Credit Check.
The sales document did not pass the payment card authorization check.
If the customer uses electronic payment, their transactions must be authorized by the payment service provider (PSP). For more
information, see Authorization of Payment Cards.
The credit status of a sales document may result from credit checks (by SAP Credit Management), payment card
authorization checks, or both. How do I set up the system for such checks?
Your key user must make the following settings for the checks to happen:
Credit checks by SAP Credit Management
Set up SAP Credit Management for Sales:
1. Configure credit management in your configuration environment.
2. Maintain credit attributes in business partner (BP) master data.
3. Configure the pricing procedure in your configuration environment.
For setup details, see Video Tutorial: How to Enable SAP Credit Management for Sales.
Payment card authorization checks
Configure credit management and the pricing procedure in your configuration environment:
1. Ensure that SAP Credit Management is active.
By default, SAP Credit Management is active in the Deactivate SAP Credit Management configuration activity.
 Note
Failed credit checks may also be caused by technical errors. You can use the CentralCreditChkTechErrSts field in
the Sales Document with Credit Block - Read, Check, Release, Reject (A2X) API to retrieve whether such errors
occurred.
 Note
In apps such as Manage Sales Orders - Version 2 and Manage Sales Documents, the credit status reflects the overall results of
both types of checks. The Track Sales Order Details app offers separate statuses for these checks:
Central Credit Check Status: Reflects the result of the latest credit check.
Payment Card Status: Reflects the result of the latest payment card authorization check.
 Note
If you want to include customers using electronic payment in credit checks (by SAP Credit Management), ensure that a risk
class has been defined for the corresponding BP and credit checks are enabled for the risk class.

---

2. Enable item categories for credit management in the Determine Active Receivables Per Item Category configuration
activity.
3. In the Set Pricing Procedures configuration activity, open your pricing procedure. In the total value step, choose A
(credit price considered) for the subtotal field.
When do credit checks (by SAP Credit Management) occur?
If SAP Credit Management has been set up for Sales, the system automatically performs a credit check when you create or change a
sales document. You can manually trigger a credit check using the following apps and API:
App Mass Change of Sales Orders
App Manage Sales Documents
App Track Sales Order Details
API Sales Document with Credit Block - Read, Check, Release, Reject (A2X)
In addition, your credit controller (with the SAP_SFIN_BC_CR_PERIODC_ACT business catalog) can schedule credit checks in the
Schedule Credit Management Jobs app. For more information, see Schedule Credit Management Jobs and Check Credit on SD
Documents.
When do payment card authorization checks occur?
If proper settings have been made in your configuration environment, the system automatically checks payment card authorization
when you create or change a sales document. You can manually trigger an authorization check using the following apps:
App Resolve Payment Card Issues - Schedule Job
App Resolve Payment Card Issues - Reauthorizations
A sales order can contain multiple payment card authorization entries. A preauthorization verifies payment card data (such as the
address and card number), whereas a real authorization validates the transactional amount. A real authorization check becomes
relevant only if the document lies within the authorization horizon. For more information, see Authorization of Payment Cards.
 Note
For information about how to enable electronic payments in sales documents, see Prerequisites.
 Note
The system performs credit checks only on credit-blocked documents (that is, credit status not yet approved) in the Manage Sales
Documents and Track Sales Order Details apps and via the Sales Document with Credit Block - Read, Check, Release,
Reject (A2X) API.
 Note
Obsolete failed authorization entries may obstruct reauthorization attempts. If so, delete the failed entries in the Change Sales
Orders - VA02 app.
 Note
When you trigger a credit check using the Mass Change of Sales Orders and Track Sales Orders apps, the system may
additionally check payment card authorization.

---

Ensure that the payment card status is approved or released before delivery creation, goods issue, and billing document creation. If
needed, use the preceding methods to trigger payment card authorization checks and update the payment card status.
