---
source: SAP Sales and Distribution Processing Document Flow.txt
module: SAP SD
title: SAP Sales and Distribution Processing Document Flow
---

# [Source: SAP Sales and Distribution Processing Document Flow.txt | Module: SAP SD]

ABAP Development

---

SAP Sales and Distribution Processing Document Flow
SAP Sales and Distribution Processing Document Flow
Document Flow in Sales
The sales documents you create are individual documents but they can also form part of a chain of inter-related documents. For
example, you may record a customer's telephone inquiry in the system. The customer next requests a quotation, which you then
create by referring to the inquiry. The customer later places an order on the basis of the quotation and you create a sales order
with reference to the quotation. You ship the goods and bill the customer. After delivery of the goods, the customer claims credit
for some damaged goods and you create a free-of-charge delivery with reference to the sales order. The entire chain of documents
- the inquiry, the quotation, the sales order, the delivery, the invoice, and the subsequent delivery free of charge - creates a
document flow or history. The flow of data from one document into another reduces manual activity and makes problem resolution
easier. Inquiry and quotation management in the Sales Information System help you to plan and control your sales.
The following graphic shows how the various types of sales documents are inter-related and how data subsequently flows into
shipping and billing documents.
The most frequently used transaction codes are as follows:
1. VS00 - Master data
2. VC00 - Sales Support
3. VA00 - Sales
4. VL00 - Shipping
5. VT00 - Transportation
6. VF00 - Billing
Others as follows:
At Configuration:
1. VOV8 - Define Sales documents type (header)
2. OVAZ - Assigning Sales area to sales documents type
3. OVAU - Order reasons
4. VOV4 - Assign Item categoreies(Item cat determination)
5. VOV6 - Scedule line categories
6. OVAL - To assign blocks to relevant sales documents type
7. OVLK - Define delivery types
8. V/06 - Pricing
9. V/08 - Maintain pricing procedure
10.OVKP - Pricing proc determination
11.V/07 - Access sequence
Enduser:
1. Customer Master Creation-VD01 and XD01 (for full inclu company code)
VD02 - Change Customer
VD03 - Display Customer
VD04 - Customer Account Changes
VD06 - Flag for Deletion Customer
XD01 - Create Customer
XD02 - Modify Customer
XD03 - Display Customer
2. Create Other material ----MM00
3. VB11- To create material determination condition record
4. CO09- Material availability Overview
5. VL01 - Create outbound delivery with ref sales order
6. VL04 - Collective processing of delivery
7. VA11 - Create Inquiry

---

VA12 - Change Inquiry
VA13 - Display Inquiry
Sales and Distribution
Sales order / Quote / Sched Agreement / Contract
- VA01 - Create Order
- VA02 - Change Order
- VA03 - Display Order
- VA02 - Sales order change
- VA05 - List of sales orders
- VA32 - Scheduling agreement change
- VA42 - Contract change
- VA21 - Create Quotation
- VA22 - Change Quotation
SAP Technical Modules
SAP technical Modules -SAP ABAP (Advanced Business Application Programming)
1. Introduction to SAP ABAP
2. ABAP Dictionary
3. ABAP Programming Techniques
4. Data Transfer Methods
5. Dialog Programming
6. Performance Tuning
7. List Creation
SAP NetWeaver (Basis) Administration – SAP technical Modules -
1. SAP Web AS Implementation & Operation I
2. SAP Web AS Implementation and Operation II
3. SAP Web AS DB Operation (Oracle)
SAP technical modules SAP R/3 Security Administration
1. Introduction to ERP and SAP
2. SAP Authorization Concept
3. Intro to Secure SAP System Management
4. Intro to Security in SAP System Environments
SAP HR Security Administration
Authorizations in HCM
SAP EP (Enterprise Portal)
SAP Web AS Java Administration
SAP Enterprise Portal System Administration
Intro to Configuration of Knowledge Management and Collaboration
SAP Technical Modules also cover :Architecture of SAP NetWeaver BW 7.0
Overview of the most important objects of BW and their attributes
Components of the data flow and extraction of data from SAP source systems or additional    data sources
Benefits and use of BW Content
Introduction to the administration of BW data targets
Principles of optimizing query performance (BW accelerator) Data flow in BW Data Acquisition    (Data Transfer Process)
Transformations in BW (such as translating units of measure)
Direct access; Real-Time Data Acquisition
Data extraction from SAP source systems
Enhancing BW Content Data Sources
Delta management; transferring data from flat files & using DB Connect
Transferring data with UD Connect & using Web Services
Data Mart Interface; define and manage Process Chains
